" 


β 


ο ~ 
S σ᾽" 
Ξ σ᾽ 
ΞΞΞΞΞΞΞΞσ) 
υ ΟΝ 
7 oO 
ΞΕ “- 


1 
1761 


ii 


3 


τ 


ay -- 


ΓΣΥΣΥΥΥΥΥΥΥΥΥΥΥΕΧΥΤΕΣΥΥΣΥΣΣΥΣΣΧΥΣΣΧΣΧΣΣΣΣΣ 
σοι τόρ. Ὁ. Θιῷ 6. 


" rail Wingdy hy 4. ᾿ if ὃ 
δ RE PSR Ἄνα ὧν OE I Ohne SF 
Pe eeeseeseeecet 


POSS HS SESSESSSESSCSSESEST SET SSSESCE SCOSSSSOES €8ZSA* 


HF ry Mh 


_E- HARRIS - 


oS A -e 


Maes LOEEE’S 


TREATISE ON RHETORIC 


LITERALLY TRANSLATED 
WITH HOBBES’ ANALYSIS, EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 


AND 


AN APPENDIX CONTAINING THE GREEK DEFINITIONS. 


ALSO, 


THE POETIC OF ARISTOTLE, 


UITARALLY TRANSLATED, WITH A SELECTION OF NOTES, AN ANALYSIP 
AND QUESTIONS. 


BY 


THEODORE BUCKLEY, B.A. 


OF CHRIST CHURCH, OXFORD, 


LONDON 
GEORGE BELL AND SONS 


1906 


ΝᾺ 
ae 


WARS 


ms 
ς om, % 
X AT La ἃ 


em +) 


[Reprinted from Sterectype plates.} 


BR AR 
Ἂ AUG 25 1967 


ty 9 
ERs iry of TOROS 


TO THE READER. 


In this third edition, the translation of Aristotle’s Rhe- 
toric has bee=. again carefully compared with the Greek, 
and revised and corrected throughout. Numerous ex~ 
planatory and illustrative notes have also been added; 
as well as a marginal analysis, which it is presumed will 
be found of much service to the reader. 

The famous Thomas Hobbes’ Brief of the Art of 
Rhetoric’, “containing in substance all that Aristotle 
hath written in his three books on that subject,” and 
forming the best summary of this noble science, has 
been again reprinted from the scarce edition published 
at London in 1681. A body of Analytical Questions, 
for self-examination, has also been appended. | 

With these improvements, the Editor confidently 

opes that the present volume will be found to contain, 
not only the most faithful version of the Rhetoric of 
Aristotle, but the best helps for the d: e understanding 
and retaining the sense thereof. 


Ozford. November, 1846. 


In the present new edition of the Oxford version of the 
Rhetoric, it has been thought advisable not to interfere 
either with the text, notes, or Questions, all being of 
acknowledged excellence. But, as Hobbes, by the 


IV TO THE READER. 


quaintness of his Analysis, at times lost sight of the 
precise character of the original definitions, an Appen 
dix has been added, containing the very words of 
Aristotle, connected by such remarks as were necessary 
to preserve clearness, and furnishing such passages as 
should be almost learnt by heart. 

The new translation of the Poetic is an attempt to 
unite the closeness of Taylor with the perspicuity of 
Twining, upon whose versions it has principally been 
based.. A copious selection from the notes of the last 
named scholar has been added, together with a few ne- 
cessary ones from recent.sources by the present Editor, 


THEOoNORE Atos Buck ey, 


Cerist CHURCH. 


ARISTOTLES 


TREATISE ON RHETORIC, 


BOOK I.—CHAP. I. 


That Rhetoric, like Logic, is conversant with no definite 
class of subjects ; that it is useful ; and that tts business 
as not absolutely to persuade, but to recognise topies fitted 
to persuade, 


Rueroric! is the counterpart of logic?; since both 
are conversant with subjects of such a nature as it is 
the business of all to have acertain knowledge of, and 
which belong to no distinct science. Wherefore all 
men in some way participate of both*; since all, to a 


1 Aristotle appears to have contemplated a much greater va- 
riety of occasions for the exercise of his 'Ῥητορικὴ, than we 
consider proper to that ill-defined art, or habit, or faculty, 
vaguely called rhetoric. In fact, according to him, any man 
who attempts to persuade another, under whatever circum- 
stances, and with whatever object, may be said to exercise 
ῥητορικὴ. 

2 Muretus explains the passage as conveying a censure on 
Plato, who extolled logic, but compared rhetoric to cookery— 
ὀψοποιητικῆ. He therefore would have it convey this mean- 
ing, ‘“‘ Rhetoric is the counterpart, not of cookery, as Plato 
asserts, but of his own favourite science, dialectics.” See also 
note 3, p. 23. 

8 Sir Ρ, Sidney, arguing that all arts are but attempts to 
methodise natural subjects, says, that “‘ the rhetorician and lo- 
gician, considering what in nature will soonest prove and per- 
snade, thereon give artificial rules, which are still compressed 
within the circle of a question, according to the proposed mat- 
tex.’ Defense of Poetry. 

B 


1. Rheto 
ric corre- 
sponds te 
Logic.. 

2. 


That we 
ean re- 
duce them 
to a sys- 
tem, 


3. Stric- 
tures on 
previous 
systems, 


2 ARISTOTLE’S | BOOK 5 


‘certain extent, attempt, as well to sift, as to maintain 


an argument; as well to defend themselves, as to im- 
peach*. Now, of the multitude®, some do this at ran- 
dom ; others, by reason of practice, from habit ; but as 
it is possible either way, it is plam that the case wilh 
admit of our reducing these things toa system. For we 
are at liberty to speculate on the causes of the success, 
as well of those who from practice, as of those who on 
the spur of the moment, [attempt either to convince 
or to persuade]. And every one will be antecedently 
prepared to acknowledge that an undertaking of this 
description is the business of art®. 

Hitherto, however, such as have compiled systems 
of oratory have executed a very trifling part of it ; 
for the means of making credible? alone come pro- 


4’ E€eraCew καὶ ὑπέχειν, qua Loegicians; ἀπολογεῖσθαι καὶ 
κατηγορεῖν, qua Rhetoricians: so that the faculties which form 
the basis of each of these arts appear to be natural to every 
man. Zeno elegantly illustrated the distinction between the 
two by a simile taken from the hand. The close power of 
Logic he compared to the jist, or hand compressed ; the diffuse 
power of Rhetoric to the palm, or hand open. Cicero, Orator. 

5 The vulgar ean give reasons to a certain degree, and can 
examine, after a manner, the reasons given them by others. 
And what is this but Narurau Logic? If therefore these 
efforts of theirs have an effect, and nothing happen without a 
cause, this effect must of necessity be derived from certain 
principles. The question then is, What these principles are ; 
for if these can once be investigated, and then knowingly ap- 
plied, we shall be enabled to do by rude what others do by 
Aazard ; and in what we do, as much to excel the uninstructed 
reasoner, as a disciplined boxer surpasses an untaught rustic. 
Harris’s Philosophical Arrang. ch. i. 

6 An effect is produced; sometimes indeed accidentally, and 
sometimes from the person’s having been habituated to that 
which he attempts. Now if we can ascertain and methodise 
the causes of this his success, so as to insure the success of 
subsequent attempts, we shall have constructed something 
similar to an art: for, in some points, chance and art are not 
un.ike ; whence the verse of Agatho ;— 

Τέχνη τύχην ἔστερξε, καὶ τύχην τέχνην. 
pee rsh Bee Eth. Nich. vi. 4. 

7 Iliorts.—If the translation of this word shall appear fre- 
quently to be vague and indeterminate, the reader is requested 
to observe that we have no equivalent expression in English ; 
for it is conceived that “‘ proof”? (the usual translation) always 
implies something qualified to convince the understanding ; 


 euar 1 RHETORIC 3 


perly within the sphere of the art, but other points are 

merely adscititious. On the subject of enthymems, Neglect of 
however, which in point of fact is the very body of oe wees 
proof, these men say not a word; while on points ~ 
foreign to the subject they busy themselves most 
mightily. Now the feeling of ill-will’, pity, and anger, 4. Hence 
and the like emotions of themind, appertain not to the ἘΜῸΝ a 
case, but refer to the judge; so that if, in regard to all the pas- 
judicial processes, matters were regulated as they now sions. 
are in some states, (and more particularly in such as 

are well constituted, ) these spokesmen would not have 

a word tosay. And every one{ approves the regula- 5. 
tion |, whether they think that the law should hold this 
language, or whether they avail themselves of the rule, 

and positively forbid to speak irrelevantly to the 

case ; just as they do in the Areopagus, observing 

this usage properly enough. For it is not right that 

an orator should bias the judge by winning him on to 

anger, or pity, or jealousy; since it is equally absurd 

as though one were to make a ruler crooked which 

he is about to use®. It is further evident that the 6. 
pleader’s business is nothing more than to prove the 

matter of fact, either that it is, or is not the case ; 

that it has, or has not happened. But as to the 
question whether it be important or trifling, just or 


whereas Aristotle designates by the word πίστις, every thing 
which has a tendency to persuade the will. It is not, however, 
meant to be denied that proof (properly such) frequently has, 
and always ought to have, a tendency to persuade; but, at the 
same time, it would be too much to say that it is the only thing 
which is qualified todo so. Wide Mitchell’s Aristoph. vol. i. ; 
Pal. Diss. p. 72; ibid. p. 75. 

® For a similar use of the word διαβολὴ, cf. Thucyd. lib. i. 
ο. 127.—ob μέντοι τοσοῦτον ἤλπιζον παθεῖν ἂν αὐτὸν τοῦτο, 
ὅσον διαβολὴν οἴσειν αὐτῷ πρὸς τὴν πόλιν. 

9 Κριτὴς τοῦ νόμου κάνων. Aristotle employs the same me- 
taphor in his Ethics :---τοὺ γὰρ αὐὀρίστου, αὔριστος καὶ 6 κακών 
ἐστιν, ὥσπε; καὶ τῆς Λεσβίας οἰκοδομῆς, ὁ μολύβδινος κανών" 
πρὸς γὰρ τὸ σχῆμω τοῦ λίθον μετακινεῖται, καὶ οὐ μένει ὁ κα- 

ώ Lib. y. c. 10. See Lucretius, iv. 516.— 
Denique ut in fabrica, si prava est regula prima, 
Normague si fallax rectis regionibus exit, 
* * * * ~ . 
Omnia mendose fieri atque obstipa necesse est, etc. 
B 2 


7. Rea 
sons why 
as little as 
possible 
should be 
left to the 
judge. 
Ist. 


2nd. 


3rd. 


Sabi L 


etal Seay: ARISTOTLE’S ~y. 
unjust, whatever questions of this nature the legis- 
lator has not determined ; on these the judge must 
somehow or other make up his mind of himself, and 
not take instructions on them from the parties at is- 
sue. It would then be most admirably adapted to 
the purposes of justice, if laws properly enacted 
were, as far as circumstances admitted, of themselves 
to mark out all cases, and to abandon as few as pos- 
sible to the discretion of the judge. And this be- 
cause, in the first place, it is easier to get one or a 
few of good sense, and of ability to legislate and ad- 
judge, than to get many 9 : and next to this, legisla- 
tive enactments proceed from men carrying their 
views a long time back; [or, from men who have 
reflected on the subject for a long time ;] while judi- 
cial decisions are made off hand ; so that it is diffi- 
cult for persons deciding under these circumstances 
to assign what is just and expedient: and, what is 
most of all to the point, is this, that the award of the 
legislator is not particular nor about present cir- 
cumstances, but about what is future and general ; 
whereas the member of a popular assembly and the 
judge decide on points actually present and definite ; 
and under their circumstances, feelings of partiality, 
and dislike, and personal expediency, will, in many 
instances, RSA AB have been interwoven with 
the case ; and to such a degree, that one is no longer 
able, adequately, to contemplate the truth, and that 
personal pleasure or pain throws a shade over the 


10 As the young man can learn consequences (ὅτε) ere he 
discovers principles, (διότι, Eth. lib. i.,) so can most men bet- 
ter judge of individual cases by δικαστικὴ φρόνησις, than frame 
laws by νομοθετικὴ φρόνησις. (Eth. lib. vi.) And this is proved 
by the universal bias of orators to individual cases founded on 
law. To borrow an illustration from the arts, we may say, 
that as a person placed in the centre of a landscape has a fuller 
view of any individual object in it than the painter himself, 
but loses proportionately the general effect; so the judge can 
discern all the particulars of a given case, but cannot, as the. 
legislator who contemplates at a distance, view so well the 
general bearings and effects of any law when united or con- 
trasted with others. Cf. also the Ethics, lib. v. c. 1.—épOées 
μὲν νόμος ὁ κείμενος ὀρθῶς" χεῖρον δὲ ὁ ἀπεσχεδιασμένοτ. 


CHAP. I.] RHETORIC -§ 


abandon to the discretion of the judges ; since it is not 
possible that the legislator ever should foresee them. 

If these things be so, it is plain that they embrace 
in their systems matters foreign to the subject, who 
give us explanations of the other points, as for in- 
stance—what the proem, and the narration, and the 
other divisions, ought severally to embrace: for in 
these treatises they busy themselves about nothing 
else, except how to render the judge of a certain dis- 
position ; while on the subject of those means of 
persuasion, recognised by art, they discover nothing ; 
and yet this is the source whence an orator may be- 
come a good reasoner. And it is for this reason 
that, notwithstanding the same system is conversant 
about deliberative and judicial cases, and although 
the business of the senate is more honourable, and 
embraces higher social interests, than that whose 
subject is merely the transactions of individuals; yet 
about the former they say not one word, while all 
undertake to frame systems of judicial pleading. 
And! they are not without a reason for this, since 


τ Cf. Hooker, v. § 9, p. 36. . 

#2 Jt is not in the nature of things that any human legislator 
should determine on the infinite number of possible cases; or 
that he should not, with regard to some, be an unsafe guide to 
our decisions: for the last of these inconveniences we have a 
remedy in ἐπεεέκεια ; since equity is, as he subsequently de- 
scribes it, τὸ τοῦ ἰδίου νόμου καὶ γεγραμμένου ἔλλειμμα, and 
τὸ παρὰ τὸν γεγραμμένον νόμον dixatov.—lib. i. c. xii. § 13. 
And again in the Ethics, ἐπανόρθωμα νόμου, ἡ ἐλλείπει διὰ τὸ 
καθόλου, v. 10. 

18. This error is a consequence on the ene mentioned before, 
§ 3: from the disregard there noticed of the enthymem and 
πίστις, orators are naturally led to attach themselves to that 
branch of public speaking which requires enthymem least; and 
such is judicial pleading, inasmuch as the cause there rests 
mainly on evidence, properly so called, on the ἀτέχναι πίστειε. 
Aristotle himself gives as another reason for this preference, 
the greater ease of judicial oratory. (Vide lib. iii. c. xvii. § 10.) 


so 


10. Rea- 
sons why 
men pre- 
fer judi- 
cial to de« 
liberative 
oratory. 


6 ARISTOTLE’S ἴβοοκ 1. 


in deliberative speeches it is less worth while to state 
matters foreign to the subject, and a deliberative 
speech admits less of malicious sophistry than judi- 
cial pleading, but is more widely interesting ; for 
here the judge [i. 6. the senator | decides on questions 
which nearly interest himself, so that no more is ne- 
cessary than to prove that the question stands just as 
he, the adviser, asserts. In judicial questions, how- 
ever, this is not sufficient, but it is worth while τὸ 
engage the hearer; for the decision is about a ease 
which does not affect himself: so that the judges, 
looking to their own gratification, and listening with 
a view to amusement, surrender themselves up to 
the pleaders ; and, strictly speaking, do not fulfil the 
character of judges!4. On which very account the 
law, in many places, as I before remarked, forbids 


And this he proves, first, because that which has been is plain 
to all, even to diviners; secondly, the orator having law for a 
premiss, the demonstration is easier. To these reasons may be 
added one which the master of Alexander weuld not willingly 
have allowed, namely, the loss of liberty to Greece, and the 
consequent loss of all interest in deliberative questions, to men 
whose future fates were totally out of their own power. 

14 A writer in the Quarterly Review, No. 26, after contrasting 
the perplexity of English law with the simplicity of Athenian 
jurisprudence, says, “‘ This simplicity in the law made it the 
orator’s business less to hunt for cases and precedents than te 
discriminate character ; less to seareh for errors in a bill than 
for flaws or errors in a witness’s life or testimony. And the 
prevalence of this practice may be inferred from a subsequent 
passage in this book, (c. ix. § 38,) where Isocrates is mentioned 
as an adept in the comparison of characters, ‘ which,” says 
Aristotle, “ he used to do to further his familiarity with judicial 
pleading.” To this we may subjoin the following remarks of 
Mitford on a speech by Alcibiades: ‘‘ The multitude ordinarily 
composing an Athenian court of justice was so great, that the 
pleaders always addressed it as under the impulse of the same 
interests, and subject to the same feelings as the general as- 
sembly, and equally without responsibility. Impartiality was 
never supposed; the passions were always applied to; and it 
never failed to he contended between the parties, which could 
most persuade the jurors that their interest was implicated with 
his, and that by deciding in his favour they would be gainers.” 
Hist. of Greece, vol. v. p. 94. So also Xenophon, in his Athe- 
nian Republic, c. 1. § 13.---οἶν τε τοῖς δικαστηρίοις ob τοῦ δικαίων 
αὐτοῖς μέλει μᾶλλον ἢ τοῦ αὐτοῖς ξυμῴφέροντος. 


CHAP. χ.ἢ RHETORIC. 7 


the saying any thing irrelevant; but there [in deli- 
berative assemblies} the judges are, of themselves, 
careful enough of this. 

But as it is plain that an artificial system is con- 11. Rea- 
versant about the means of making credible, and as ταν πέτα 
this isa sort of proof, (because we are then most per- cian will 
suaded when we conceive that the point has been probenly 
proved,) but the proof of rhetoric is enthymem, (and λυ τ he 
this, to speak generally, has the most sovereign effect torician. 
of all the means of persuasion ;) and the enthymem 
is a sort of syllogism ; since too it is the province of 
logic to consider equally every sort of syllogism, 
whether of that art as a whole, or of some particular 
branch of it; then, these points being admitted, it is 
evident that the man best able to consider the ques- 
tion, out of what sources and how the syllogism arises, 

‘will moreover be in the highest degree capable of 
employing enthymems ; provided he make himself 
acquainted, besides his logic, w:th the kind of sub- 
jects about which enthymems are conversant, and 
what differences they exhibit as compared with the 
syllogism of logic. Because it belongs to the same 
faculty of the mind to recognise both truth and the 
Ganblanee OF WANT ἐπὰ Tore Than Tis; mankind 
have a’? tolerable natural tendency toward that which 
is true; and, in general, hit the truth; wherefore an. 
aptness in conjecturing probabilities belongs to him 
who has a similar aptness in regard to truth. It is 


‘ eee 


plain, then, that other rhetoricians embrace in their 
systems, points foreign to the subject, and what rea- 
sons they have for inclining to the subject of judi- 
cial pleading in preference to the other branches of 
rhetoric. 

But rhetoric is wseful, because truth and justice 12, Util- 
are in their nature stronger than their opposites ; so tyof | 
that if decisions be made, net in conformity to the eo ag 
rule of propriety, it must have been that they have Ist. 
been got the better of, through fault of the advocates 
themselves : and this is deserving reprehension. Fur- 2nd. 


15 εφύκασιν ἱκανῶς, have naturally a considerable aptitude 
teward what, is true. 


8 ARISTOTLE’S [BooK α 


thermore, in the case of some people, not even if we 
had the most accurate scientific knowledge, would it 
be easy to persuade them were we to address them 
through the medium of that knowledge ; for a scien- 
tific discourse, it is the privilege of education [to ap- 
preciate], and it is impossible that this [should ex- 
tend to the multitude!*]; but we must construct our 
means of persuasion, and our addresses, through the 
medium of ordinary language; as in fact I stated in 
my ‘Topics, “on the manner of communicating with 


8rd. the multitude.” Again, too, we ought to be able to 


4th 


. 


persuade on opposite sides of a question; as also we 
ought in the case of arguing by syllogism: not that 
we should practise both, for it is not right to persuade 
to what is bad; but in order that the bearing of the 
case may not escape us, and that when another 
makes an unfair use of these reasonings, we may be 
able to solve them.!7 Now, of all the other arts, there 
is not one which embraces contraries in its conclu- 
sions; but logic and rhetoric alone do this; for they 
are both in an equal degree'® conversant about con- 
traries ; not, however, that these contrary subjects 
present equal facilities: but the true and better side 
of the question is always naturally of a more easy 
inference, and has, generally speaking, a greater tend- 
ency to persuade. To illustrate further the utility 
of rhetoric, it were absurd, if, while it is disgraceful 


16 The communication of ideas requires a similitude of 
thought and language: the discourse of a philosopher would 
vibrate without effect on the ear of a peasant. Gibbon’s De- 
cline and Fall, c. 1. note 90. 

17 In the words of Falconbridge, let the orator resolve to 


ὧν smack of observation ; 
Which, though I will not practise to deceive, 
Yet, to avoid deceit, I mean to learn.” 


'8 Riccobon remarks, that a person may at first be inclined 
to doubt the truth of the assertion that Rhetoric and Logic 
alone recognise contraries ; seeing that music, for instance, re- 
cognises harmony and discord; grammar, the improprieties 
and the proprieties of language, etc. This doubt is however 
removed, he says, by the word ὁμοίως, for these alone recoge 
nise with egwal propriety each of the two contraries; whereas 
other arts apply more strictly to one than to another. 


CHAP. τ. RHETORIC. 9 


for a man not to be able to assist himself by his per- 
son, it were not disgraceful to be unable to do this by 
his speech, which is more a peculiarity of man than 
the exercise of the body’. If, however, [any one 
should object”°] that a person, unfairly availing him- 
self of such powers of speaking, may be, in a very 
high degree, injurious ; this is an objection which 
will lie in some degree against every good indis- 
criminately, except virtue; and with especial force 
against those which are most advantageous, as 
strength, health, wealth, and generalship. Because, 
employing these fairly, a person may be beneficial in 
points of the highest importance ; and, by employing 
them unfairly, may be equally injurious. 

That rhetoric, then, is conversant not with any one 
distinct class of subjects, but like logic [is of universal 
applicability ], and that it is useful, is evident ; as also 
that its business is not absolute persuasion ”', but to 
consider on every subject what means of persuasion 
are inherent in it; just as is also the case in every 


19 This is an ἃ minort argument, to understand the full force 
of which we ought to bear in mind the great importance at- 
tached to the δύναμις ἀγωνιστικὴ by the Greeks. 


20 Non tamen idcirco crimen liber omnis habebit : 
Nil prodest quod non ledere possit idem. 
Igne quid utilius? Si quis tamen urere tecta 
Comparat, audaces instruit igne manus. 
Eripit interdum, modo dat medicina salutem, 
Queque juvans monstrat, queeque sit herba nocens. 
Et latro, et cautus precingitur ense viator : 
Ille sed insidias, hic sibi portat opem. 
Discitur innocuas ut agat facundia causas : 
Protegit hec sontes, immeritosque premit. 
Ovid. Trist. lib. ii. 1. 265. 


21 Having told us what we may expect from Rhetoric, he 
now tells us what we are not to expect from it. Persuasion, 
though: the end, is not the duty of rhetoric: ‘‘ Officium ejus 
facultatis videtur esse, dicere apposite ad persuadendum: Finis, 
persuadere dictione.”’ (Cicero de Inv.) In the arts whose 
foundation is conjectural [στοχαστικαὶ τέχναι], among which 
we must class rhetoric, if the artist had done all that the case 
admitted, his duty was conceived to have been fulfilled, and 
he was entitled to commendation though he had entirely failed 
of success. . 


13. Ob- 
jection 
against 
the abuse 
of it an- 
swered, 


14. End 
and duty 
of Rheto- 
ric. 


Differ- 
ence in 
Logic and 
Rhetoric 
as regards 


10 ARISTOTLE 8 ΓΒΟΟΚῚ 


other art: for neither is it the duty of medicine to 
render its patient healthy, but to bring him on as far 
as the case admits ; for it is nevertheless very possi- 
ble to treat properly even such as may be incapable 
of again partaking of health: and besides this [it is 
evident that it belongs to the self-same art to ob- 
serve both the real and seeming means of persuasion; 
just as it is incumbent on logic to consider syllogisms 
and apparent syllogisms. And this is the case, be- 
cause the character of sophist does not consist in the 
faculty” | for the logician possesses this as well as he], 
but in his fixed design [of abusing 138], Here [in 


33 That he is consistent in thus classifying characters accord- 
ing to their moral principles, will appear from his application 
of the appellation ᾿Αλαζὼν by the same rule in the Ethics: 
Οὐκ ἐν τῇ δυνάμει ἐστὶν ὁ ἀλαζὼν, ἀλλ᾽ ἐν TH προαιρέσει. 
Ethics, iv. c. 7. 

78 In order more fully to illustrate the nature of rhetoric, 
Aristotle has considered it throughout this chapter as analogous 
to logic. Each, he says, is founded on a faculty naturally pos- 
sessed by all men; each is useful, and applicable with equal 
propriety to any class of subjects whatever. Besides this, lo- 
gic and rhetoric alone, of all arts, are equally conversant with 
opposite inferences; and of course with sound and specious 
arguments (whether in the form of syllogism or enthymem). 
Now as logic and rhetoric are in their own nature indifferent 
to truth or falsehood, it must require an act of choice in either 
case to select the former or the latter, and the constant repeti- 
tion of that choice will ultimately form a corresponding habit. 
Hence the διαλεκτικὸς may be considered as δυνάμει σοφιστὴς, 
and the σοφιστὴς as δυνάμει διαλεκτικὸς. But when logic is 
prostituted to the support of false propositions, by the bad 
principles (the προαίρεσις) of its professors, it is branded with 
the name of sophistry, and the persons who so misapply it are 
called sophists : whereas, in the case of rhetoric, no such dis- 
tinction in reference to the principles of its professors ever ob- 
tained; but the name of orator is enjoyed equally by all who 
are masters of the art, whether they exercise it fairly or not, 
ἐνταῦθα μὲν, ἔσται ὁ μὲν κατὰ τὴν ἐπιστήμην, ὁ δὲ κατὰ τὴν 
προαίρεσιν, Ῥήτωρ. A reason for this distinction may per- 
haps be furnished from the nature of the subject-matter re- 
spectively. The subject-matter of logic is ἀληθὲς, which is 
uniform, absolute, and admits not of degrees. Hence the so- 
phistical logician may fairly be supposed aware of the fallacy 
he uses, and is stigmatized accordingly. But the subject-mat- 
ter of rhetoric being τὸ ὅμοιον To ἀληθεῖ, (v. § 11,) or πεθανὸν, 
has many and various degrees, from the lowest presumption 


] 


CHAP. 11. RHETORIC. " 


rhetoric |, however, the one who is considered in re- 
ference simply to his knowledge of the art, as well as 
he who is considered in reference to his moral prin- 
ciples, is indiscriminately designated an orator. But in 
logic, a sophist is called so in reference to his moral 
principles ; a logician, however, without reference to 
his principles, simply as regards the faculty he is 
master of. 

However, commencing from this point, let us at- 
tempt to treat of the system both from what sources 
and in what manner we shall be able to attain the 
proposed objects; having then once more, as at the 
outset, defined what this art is, let us treat of what 
remains, 


CHAP. II. 


Definition of Rhetoric.—Eixi¢ :—Xnpsiov :—Texpnooyv :-π’ 
their differences.— Example. 


Let us define rhetoric to be, “ A faculty of consider- 
ing all the possible means of persuasion on every sub- 
ject ;” for this is the business of no one of the other 
~ arts, each of which is fit enough to inform or persuade 
respecting its own subject; medicine, for instance, 
on what conduces to health or sickness ; and geome- 
try, on the subject of relations incidental to magni- 
tudes ; and arithmetic, on the subject of numbers ; 
and in the same way the remaining arts and sciences. 
But rhetoric, as I may say, seems able to consider the 
\ means of persuasion on any given subject whatso- 
ever. And hence I declare it to have for its province, 
as an art, no particular limited class of subjects. Now 
of the means of effecting persuasion, some originate 
in the art, others independently of it. By inartificial 


up to moral certainty. Here then a fallacy is not so easily 
discoverable, even by the orator himself; and candour re- 
quires us not to brand as moral what after all may be merely 
mental imperfection in the speaker. 


the name 
of the 
profess- 
ors. 


1 δ. 


1, Defini- 
tion of 
Rhetoric. 


2. Two 
classes of 
πίστεις 
—EVTEY= 
νοι, kev 
νοι. 


12 ARISTOTLE’S {BOOK % 


I mean whatever are not furnished forth by our own 
means, but which are in existence already, as wit- 
nesses, torture, deeds, and all of this kind ; by artifi- 
cial, such as may be got up by means of the system, 
and by our own talents. So that as regards these, 
we have to employ the one class, to discover the 
other. 

8. Of means of persuading by speaking there are 
three species!: some consist in the character of the 
speaker ; others in the disposing the hearer a certain 
way; others in the thing itself which is said, by rea- 
son of its proving, or appearing to prove the point. 

4. i. Cha- [ Persuasion is effected | by means of the moral charac- 

aged of ter, when the speech shall have been spoken in such 

e speak- . 

er. a way as to render the speaker worthy confidence : 
for we place confidence in the good to a wider extent, 
and with less hesitation, on all subjects generally ; 
but on points where no real accuracy exists, but there 
is room for doubt, we even entirely confide in them. 
This feeling, however, should arise by means of the 
speech, and not by reason of its having been precon- 
ceived that the speaker is a certain kind of man. For 
it is not true, as some treatise-mongers lay down in 
their systems, of the probity of the speaker, that it 
contributes nothing to persuasion ; but moral charac- 
ter nearly, I may say, carries with it the most sove- 

δ. ii. Feel- reign efficacy in making credible?. [Persuasion is 

ings ofthe effected] through the medium of the hearers, when 

auditor. Η 
they shall have been brought to a state of excitement 
under the influence of the speech; for we do not, 
when influenced by pain or joy, or partiality or dis- * 
like, award our decisions in the same way ; about 
which means of persuasion alone, I declare that the 


1 Πίστεις διὰ τοῦ λόγου, ΟΥ̓ artificial, of three kinds, ἐν Te 
ἠθεῖ τοῦ λέγοντος--ἐν τῷ τὸν ἀκροατὴς διαθεῖναί wios—év αὐτῷ 
τῷ λόγῳ. 

2 ih so high estimation did Menander hold the manner of 
an address, that he attributed the whole effect to it ;—rTpd7a, 
ἔσθ᾽ ὁ πείθων τοῦ λέγοντος, οὐ λόγος. And as Plutarch ob: 
serves upon this line, καὶ τρόπος μὲν οὔν Kai λόγος" ἢ TPO'TIOS 
ΔΙΑ AO'TUY. De Audiend. Poet. t. i. Op. Mor. p. 125. 
edit. Wyttenb. 


CHAP. Ii.. RHETORIC. 13 


system-mongers of the present day busy themselves. 
On the subject of these, however, some light will be 
afforded, when I speak on the subject of the passions. 

Men give credit from the force of what is said, 6. iii. The 
when out of the means of persuasion which attach to SPcech it- 
each subject, we evince the truth, or that which ap- ~~ 
pears so. Now as persuasion is effected by these 7. Rheto- 


means, it is plain that it will be the privilege of him "ean of 
who is able to draw inferences syllogistically, and to pjalectics 


take a full view of the subject of morals, and of the and Peli- 
virtues, and thirdly of the passions, both what each 4°: 
of the passions is, of what nature it is, and from what 
causes it is engendered, and how : so that the fact is, 
that rhetoric is, as it were, a kind of off-shoot of logic, 
and of that department of moral philosophy which it 

is fair to call the science of social life’. Whence rhe- 
toric is invested with the costume‘ of that science, 

as well as its professors, partly from inexperience, 
partly arrogance, and in part from other human 
causes ; because, as I stated at the outset, it is a sort 

of subordinate division of logic, and portraiture of it ; 
neither of them being a science of any one definite 


3 Πολιτικὴ, For an explanation of this term—an enumer- 
ation of the various arts which he comprehends under it—and 
for an account of the estimation in which he holds it, see 
Ethics, lib. i. c. 2. 

4 Ὑποδύεται. So blind are men to this affectation of rheto- 
ric and its professors, that he who, having had no occasion for 
the display of his persuasive powers, other than the ordinary 
course of affairs presents, would be accused of great arrogance 
were he to talk of having exercised rhetoric. Now Aristotle, 
so far from holding a person guilty of presumption for such an 
use of the term, would rather retort on the accuser the charge 
of ignorance of its true import. For with a view to invest their 
art, and of consequence themselves, with an air of dignity, the 
professors of rhetoric, said he, would have the world think 
(some of them, poor creatures, δι᾿ ἀπαιδευσίαν) that it was ap- 
plicable exclusively to such cases as are of high concernment 
to society. This in part is true; rhetoric is παραφυὲς τῆς 
Ilodrreias: but, as Majoragius observes, “ Virgulta magnam 
quidem cum arboribus quibus adnascuntur habent similitudi- 
nem, et rerum naturam redolent. Sed tamen multo sunt infe- 
riora, neque tam uberes fructus ferunt.”? So far prevalent is this 
notion to this very day, that we only apply this τὸ ἃ by way 
of ridicule to persuasion on ordinary topics. 


8. Subdi- 
vision of 
πίστεις, 
ἐν αὐτῷ 
τῷ λό 

i. Ent τ 
mem, ii 
Example. 


9. Ex- 


ample. 


Defini- 
tion of 
Syllo- 
zism. 


10. Vari- 
ous styles 
of speak- 
ing. 


14 ARISTOTLE’S | BooK i 


subject, as to what may be its nature; but both being 
certain faculties for furnishing ourselves with argu-~ 
ments. Now on the subject of the powers of the 
two, and their mutual dears nearly enough has 
been said. 

With regard to means of persuading by proving, 
or appearing to prove your point, just as in logic one 
is induction, another syllogism, another apparent syl- 
: logism, so also is the case here in rhetoric; for its 
example is an induction, its enthymem a syllogism ; 
and enthymem I call rhetorical syllogism ; example, 
rhetorical induction. Now all orators effect their de- 
monstrative proofs by allegation either of enthymems 
or examples, and, besides these, in no other way 
whatever. So that if it be incumbent on you to prove 
with regard to any thing or person in form of syllo- 
gism or induction, it cannot but be (as is evident from 
Analytics) that each of these will be essentially the 
same as each of the former (enthymem and induction). 
And what the difference is between example and en- 
thymem is plain from the Topics, where, on the sub- 
ject of syllogism and induction, it has been stated 
before, that the proving that such or such is the fact 
in many and similar cases, is called in the other art, 
induction; in this, example. But when, certain 
points having been granted, there results, by virtue 
of these, something else over and above these, by 
virtue of their existence, either as generals or parti- 
culars; this process is, in that art, called syllogism ; 
in this, enthymem®. Rhetoric, it is plain, enjoys each 
advantage; for [with respect to it] the case, in this 
treatise, is the same as in the Methodica has been 
stated of logic; the speeches of orators® abounding, 
some in examples, others in enthymems ; and orators - 
themselves being in the same way, some fond of ex- 
ample, others of enthymem. Reasoning, however 


5 Or, each style of rhetoric has its peculiar advantage. 

4 Ῥητορεία, the words of an orator, modelled according te 
rhetoric, whose object it is to persuade ; 3 versus, λόγος, the 
words of a logician, modelled according to logic, whose object 
it is to convince. 


CHAP. II." RHETORIC. 13 


conducted through the medium of example, are not 
less calculated to persuade ; but those of which en- 
thymem is the characteristic are rather applauded’. 
But I will hereafter explain what is the cause of this, 
and how we are to use each species of proof: let us, 
at present, distinguish more clearly respecting these 
proofs themselves. Now forasmuch as that which 
carries persuasion with it, does so in reference to 
some one; and either is, immediately on being enun- 
ciated, actually of a nature to persuade, and enforce 
belief; or [has its effect] from its appearing to prove 
through the medium of such [as compose the former 
class]; and as no art considers particular cases ; me- 
dicine for example, what is wholesome for the indi- 
viduals, Socrates. or Callias, but what is so for any 
person of such a constitution ; for this question comes 
within the province of art, but particulars are infinite, 
and cannot be known: so neither will rhetoric con- 
sider probability in reference to particular individuals ; 
what, for instance, is probable to Socrates or Callias, 
but that which is so to persons such as they are; just 
in the same way as logic, for that art does not draw 
conclusions indiscriminately from any subjects; for 
some things there are which appear probable even to 
a madman; [yet you never would dream of arguing 
about them ;] but it supplies itself from subjects 
which require reasoning, as does rhetoric from sub- 
jects which are usual matters of deliberation. Its 
business then is respecting points about which we de- 
liberate, and have no art specially conversant, and 
before auditors of such abilities as are not able to take 
a connected view of reasonings, conducted through 


7 Θορυβοῦνται. Twining, in his notes on the Poetic, quot- 
ing a subsequent passage of this Treatise, in which this word 
again occurs, (ii. 23,) translates it, “‘ are applauded,” and ob- 
serves, that “the commentators strangely mistake the sense cf 
this word here, and in lib. i.c. 2. They render it absurdly,— 
vehementius percellunt—perturbant maxime. Whether an at- 
dience be pleased or displeased, to any great degree, noise is 
equally the consequence; and the word ϑορυβεῖν is used, 
sometimes for ‘he uproar of approbation, and sometimes for 

that of dislike 


11. Rhe- 
toric con- 
siders the 
πιθανὸν 
for ἃ class, 
not an in- 
dividual, 


and draws 
its sup- 
plies from 
subjects of 
delibera- 
tion. 

12. Audi: 
ence held 
to be 
ἁπλοί. 


13. Hence 
conclud- 
ing ἐκ 
σνλλελο- 
γισμένων 
πρότε- 
ov, being 
engthy, 
and ἐξ 
ἀσυλλο- 
γίστων 
μὲν δευμέ- 
νὼν O& 
συλλο- 
γισμοῦ, 
being un- 
admitted 
—are to be 
avoided, 


i6 ARISTOTLE’S . BOOK 2 


many stages, nor to deduce an argument from remote 
principles. Now we deliberate on subjects which 
appear to admit of having themselves in either of two 
ways: for on questions which cannot, under any cir- 
cumstances, past, present, or future, be otherwise ; 
on these, I say, no one deliberates, at least not while 
he apprehends them to be such®; for by such a deli- 
beration nothing is gained. And you may draw your 
conclusions and inferences, sometimes from premises 
which you have arrived at by former syllogisms ; and 
sometimes from propositions, not syllogistically de- 
duced, but requiring such a process by reason of their 
not being probable at first sight; but of these pro- 
cesses, it is impossible thatthe former should not be 
hard to follow up, by reason of its prolixity (for your 
hearer® is supposed to be aman of merely ordinary 
ndiiesutokdiue and the latter defective in persuasive 
efficacy, by reason of its not being deduced out of 
principles either acknowledged,.or probable ; so that 
it is necessary that both the enthymem and example 
should be conversant about points which, generally 
speaking, admit of being otherwise, (the example an- 
swering to induction, and the enthymem to syllo- 


* A man under a mistaken idea of the nature of the subject 
may possibly deliberate on a question, the nature of which is 
fixed and necessary. Still, however, as long as he remains 
under this impression, the subject relatively to him is of a con- 
tingent nature, " 

9 Cicero giyes a similar. caution :—“ Hee nostra oratio 
multitudinis est auribus accommodanda, ad oblectandos animos, 
ad impellendos, ad ea probanda que non aurificis statera, sed 
quadam populari trutina examinantur.”” De Orat. lib. ii. We 
may further proye that this precept has its foundation in na- 
ture, by quoting the words of a celebrated modern writer, who, 
at least in penetration and knowledge of mankind, had few 
superiors; ‘f The receipt to make a speaker, and an applauded 
one too, is short and easy. Take common sense guantum suf- 
ficit; add a little application to the rules and orders of the 
House; throw obvious thoughts in a new light, and make up 
the whole with a large quantity of purity, correctness, and 
elegance of style. Take it for granted that by far the greatest 
part of mankind neither analyse nor search to the bottom ; 
they are incapable of penetrating deeper than the surface.” 
Lord Chesterfield’s Letters. 


o 


CHAP 11.] RHETORIC. 17 


gism,) and be deduced out of few, and frequently out 
of fewer intermediate propositions than the syllogism, 
in its original form, consisted of. For if any of these 
be known, it is not necessary to mention it; for the 
hearer of himself makes this addition. For example, 
in order to convey the information that Dorieus was 
conqueror in a contest where a chaplet is the prize ; 
it suffices to say, that he conquered in the Olympic 
games: but as to the circumstance that, having con- 
quered at Olympia, he got a chaplet, there is no ne- 
cessity for adding it, because every one knows it. 
But as the necessary premises out of which the 
syllogisms of rhetoric are formed are very few, (for 
the majority of questions about which decisions and 
consideration are exercised admit of being otherwise ; 
because men deliberate and consider on the subjects 
of human conduct, and all conduct is of this con- 
tingent nature, nor is a single branch, I may say, of 
these subjects necessary,) and it cannot but be that 


_ you should deduce contingent conclusions from pre- 


mises whose nature is such; and necessary ones, 
from necessary; (this is evident to us from the 
Analytics :) I say, since this is the case, it is plain 
that the premises out of which enthymems are de- 
duced, will be some of them necessary, but the 
greatest part contingent: for enthymems are ad- 
duced from probabilities 10 (εἰκότα) and signs (σημεῖα). 
And thus it follows of necessity, that, of these, each 


10 In despair of finding adequate English expressions for the 
words εἰκὸς and σημεῖον, 1 have acquiesced in the usual, but 
erroneous translation. At the risk of incurring the charge of 
prolixity, the following are given as the most popular ways of 
explaining this difficult subject. Dr. Whately considers this 
“a division of arguments according to the relation of the sub- 
ject-matter of the premises to that of the conclusion.’”? The 
εἰκὸς (or διότι of Aristotle) he takes to be an a priori argu- 
ment, which may be employed to account for the fact supposed 
granted. The σημεῖον (or ὅτι of Aristotle) and example, 
arguments which could not be so employed: vid. Rhetoric, p. 
116. Others, again, maintain that the σημεῖον is an argument 
to prove past matters, the εἰκὸς to prove future. The majority 
of commentators, however, consider the εἰκὸς and σημεῖον ag 
propositions in different matter: thus,— 


Cc 


14. En- 
thymems, 
are de- 
duced ei- 
ther from 
εἰκότα οἵ 
σημεῖα. 


15. Defi- 
nition of 
εἰκὸς, 


18 ARISTOTLE’S [Βοοκ & 


respectively is identified with each of the former 
For probability is what usually happens, not abso- 


εἰκὸς, in contingent matter, σημεῖον in necessary matter. 
in the ratio of an univer- 
sal toa particular. — a Ἴ 
As a particular As an universal 
to an universal. to a particular. 


ἀναγ καῖον ΟΥ̓ TEk- ἡ ἀναγκαῖον dvi 
id (Concl é Ὧ ] 
: μήριον. (Conclu- | νυμον. (Inconclu- 
Poe aa sive, and only sive, the middle 
incetvinaie assailable in the |term not being 
: premises. ) distributed.) 


Another explanation, founded on three passages, the first in 
the Analytics; the second by Cicero (de Inv. i. 30); the third 
in Quintilian, (v. c. ix. 10,) adopted by Majoragius, is as fol- 
lows: The σημεῖον is some sensible fact, either attested by sense 


(Illicit process 


. or reducible thereto, not a general truth; hence it will be the 


minor premiss in the enthymem, not the major, the σημειόμενον, 
or thing signified by it, being the conclusion, and as the latter 
is known solely through and by the former, there is always a 
real or supposed connexion between them. 

Ist. The thing signified may be contained in the sign which 
implies not only that, but something more. ‘The latter then, 
as regards the former, will stand in the ratio of a whole to its 
part ; as individual or particular nature to common or generic: - 
what is definite always containing or implying more than what 
is indefinite (on which principle we are told in logic that the 
species is more of a whole than a genus). Hence it is defined, 
ὡς τῶν καθεκαστόν τι πρὸς τὸ καθόλου, and is called ἄναγκαϊον 
or τεκμήριον. Hence Quintilian, observing the conclusiveness 
of this argument, denies it the name of argument at all: 
‘* Non sunt argumenta, quia ubi illa sunt, questio non est;” 
an error resembling that made by certain modern philosophers, 
who deny the utility of logic because the premises of a syllo- 
gism virtually imply the conclusion. 

2nd. The thing signified may not be contained or implied in 
the sign. The latter being more vague and indefinite than the. 
former ; bearing to the thing signified the ratio of a part to the 
whole, as common or generic nature to individual or particular, 
ws τῶν καθόλου Ti πρὸς τὸ κατὰ μέρος. This enthymem ap- 
pears in the same mood as the first, scilicet, Barbara, but in 
the second figure, hence an illicit process of the minor term. 
Note, that as the σημεῖον is always the minor and the thing 
signified the conclusion, the relation here spoken of as καθόλου, 
and κατὰ μέρος, must be understood not of the logical relation 
in the syllogism between the major premiss and the conclusion, 
but of the relation between two things, one specific, the other 
general. Now in the εἰκὸς enthymem, on the contrary, the 


CHAP. 11.} RHETORIC. 19 


lutely so, however, as some define it, but, at any rate, 
that which, in contingent matter, has itself so to- 
wards that with respect to which it is probable, as 
an universal to a particular'!. But of the signs, one 


relation of εἰκὸς and the conclusion (ἐκεῖνο πρὸς ὃ εἰκὸς) is the 
strict logical relation of universal to particular, or of a generic 
law to its application in an individual instance. The εἰκὸς 
therefore is the major premiss, not the minor. 

We see that the universal major in the σημεῖον enthymem 
cannot be the σημεῖον itself, because it is detached from any 
particular relation, and involves no particular deduction : nor 
yet is this major, though universal, an εἰκὸς, being ἁπλῶς and 
totally true, which is inconsistent with the very meaning of 
the word “ probable.” 

Again, though the minor premiss of the εἰκὸς enthymem 
contains a simple matter of fact, it is not a σημεῖον, for to con- 
stitute a sign it must point to something else equally necessary 
with itself; a condition not fulfilled by the εἰκὸς enthymem 
conclusion. Still there is so much affinity between the minor 
premiss of the εἰκὸς enthymem, and the ἀνώνυμον σημεῖον, that 
by converting the major premiss, with the addition of the word 
“ probably” to the copula, we shall change the σημεῖον into 
an εἰκὸς of low degree: e. g. 


All who have a fever breathe Those who breathe hard pro- 


hard. bably have a fever. 
This man breathes hard. This man breathes hard. 
This man has a fever. This man probably has a fever. 


And this affinity perhaps led Quintilian to confound Aristotle’s 
ἀνώνυμοῦ σημεῖον with his εἰκὸς, (lib. v. c. ix. § 8.) It is this 
kind of ‘‘ sign’? and the argument deducible from it, which 
constitutes what, in criminal cases, is called circumstantial 
evidence. 

Aristotle mentions another sort of σημεῖον (ὃ 18) which 
comes out a syllogism in the third figure, with an universal 
conclusion, and hence its error is.an illicit process of the mi- 
_norterm. The principle on which this syllogism proceeds is 
an imperfect, precarious induction, and endeavours to deduce 
a general truth from a particular instance. The ratio, there. 
fore, of the sign to the thing signified, is as one to all. This, 
it will be observed, is a new signification of the terms καθόλον 
and καθ᾽ ἕκαστον, but one which they will obviously admit, and 
borne out by the example he adduces. 

The above explanation has been given rather at length, be- 
cailse it is not generally so well known as the others, nor so 
easy to follow. 

1! The usual definition of εἰκὸς is considered by Aristotle as 
too vague; he limits it, therefore, to contingent matter, and 
would have it stand in such a relation to the conclusion to be 
drawn, as an universal to a particular. For instance, the 


c 2 


6. Three 


different 
sorts of 
σημεῖα. 


17. τεκ- 


μήριον. 


18. ση- 
Mela αἀνώ- 
νψυμα, 


20 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK 1, 


has the same ratio as a particular to an universal ; 
the other, as an universal to a particular: and of 
these, the one which is necessarily conclusive, I call 
τεκμήριον ; but the other, which is not necessary, has 
no name assigned to it in reference to its difference 
[as a species ]. Now by necessary propositions, I 
mean those out of which a syllogism is adduced ; and 
hence this kind of signs is called τεκμήριον, for when 
they think it impossible to do away what has been 
stated, people then esteem that they adduce a τεκμή- 
pov; the point having been evinced and coneluded ; 
for, according to the old language, τέκμαρ is the 
same as “a boundary.” Again, there is one sign 
whose ratio is as that of a particular to an universal: 
thus, were one to assert, for instance, that “ The 
wise are just; because Socrates was wise and just ;” 
this then is a sign, but it may be done away, even 
supposing the premiss stated to be true ; for it vio- 
lates the rules of syllogism, as to the other!*, when, 
for instance, a person alleges as a sign that a man is 
sick, his being in a fever; or says a woman has had 
a child, because she has milk ; this is a necessary 
sign ; which very one of the signs alone amounts to 
a τεκμήριον ; since it alone, if the premiss be true, 
cannot be done away. ‘The other sign is in the ratio 
of an uniyersal to a particular; as if, for instance, 


Corinthians at Athens state as an εἰκὸς, that the Corcyreans 
were addicted to piracy, their shunning alliances with other 
states, because those who would become pirates study secrecy ; 
but this broad fact is, when compared with the single case of 
the Corcyreans, as an universal to a particular, or as a whole 
to a part, pirates being one class only of the many who study 
secrecy as a veil tocrime. It is moreover a case in contingent 
matter ; for those who study secrecy, may or may not be ad- 
dicted to piracy. 

12 Τεκμήριον, the other species of σημεῖον: 6. g. “ Ut mihi 
Platonis illud, seu quis dixit alius, perelegans esse videatur ; 
quem cum ex alto ignotas ad terras tempestas et in desertum 
littus detulisset, timentibus ceteris propter ignorationem lo- 
corum, animadvertisse dicunt in aren& geometricas formas 
quasdam esse descriptas; quas ut vidisset, exclamavisse ut 
bono essent animo; videre enim se hominum vestigia; que 
videlicet ille non ex agri consitura, quam cernebat, sed ex dote 
trine indiciis interpretabatur.” Cic. de Rep. c. xvii. “ν. 52. 


σπαρ. τ}. | RHETORIC. 21 


one were to say it was a sign that ἃ man has ἃ fever, 
because he breathes thickly. But this, even granting 
the premiss be true, may be done away: for it is 
very possible that one who has not a fever should 
breathe thickly. Now what is probability, what sign, 
and what τεκμήριον, and in what they differ, has 
been explained: but in the Analytics [these several 
gradations of proof] as well as the reasons why some 
are not correctly inferred, and others are, have been 
distinctly stated with greater clearness'!*, As to ex- 
ample, it has been stated that it is an induction, and 
induction on what kind of subjects ; and its ratio is 
neither that of a part to a whole, nor of a whole to a 
part, nor of a whole to a whole: but example is in 
the ratio of a part to a part |‘, of a similar case to a 
similar, when, both coming under the same genus, 
the one case happens to be better known than the 
other. For instance, you assert that Dionysius, in 
asking a guard, has views of setting up a tyranny, 
because Pisistratus before him, when designing this, 
began to ask for a body guard, and when he got it, 
established himself as tyrant ; so too did Theogenes, 
at Megara. And all other persons who have acted 
in this way, and with whom your audience are ac- 
quainted, become examples against Dionysius, with 
respect to whom they do not yet know whether he 
be asking a guard with this intention: and all these 


'3 In the Analyties, he says, “ the εἰκὸς is πρότασις ἔνδοξος, 
bnt the σημεῖον professes to be πρότασις ἀποδεικτικὴ, whether 
necessary or probable. Now an enthymem (he continues) is 
an imperfect syllogism, consisting of εἰκότα and σημεῖα, and 
the latter are assumed in three ways, according to the number 
of the figures of syllogism (for Aristotle made only three), the 
first, second, and third of logic. In all these the σημεῖον 15. the 
μέσον (i. 6, the argumentum, or minor proposition), but the 
first alone is ἄλυτον." Analytic. Prior. lib. ii. c. xxix. Edit. 


44 Not as a part to a whole, for that would be σημεῖον ; nor 
as a whole to a part, for that would be τεκμήριον : nor as a 
whole to a whole, for that would be ἐπαγωγὴ (which, when 
perfect, reasons from a whole taken individually to the same 
taken collectively). Example therefore is in the ratio of a part 

to a part. 


19. Ex- 
ample, or 
rhetorical 
induc- 
tion. 

ὡς μέοος 
πρὸς μέ- 
ρος. 


20. Two 
different 
sorts of 
enthy- 
mem. 


21. 
Ist. τό- 
OL. 


2nd, εἴδη. 


22 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 1. 


cases come under the same general premiss!”, that he 
who is laying schemes to set up a tyranny, asks a 
guard. Now then the points have been stated out of 
which the proofs which have an air of demonstration 
are adduced. 

The difference of enthymems is considerable, and 
has remarkably escaped nearly every writer : it is, 
too, a difference the very same as exists between syl- 
logisms in logic: for some enthymems there are of 
applicability equal to that of rhetoric itself, in the 
same way that in logic some syllogisms are ; others, 
according to the extent of other arts and faculties, 
existing, some already, and others not yet comprised 
by rules. And hence those who employ them both 
escape the observation of their hearers, and if they 
handle them more than is right, pass out of their pro- 
per characters as mere orators. This however will 
become clearer, if stated more in detail. I call those 
forms of reasoning !® properly logical or rhetorical, in 
reference to which, I use the expression places; such 
are those which apply with equal advantage to ques- 
tions of justice, and natural philosophy, and of the 
philosophy of social life, and to numerous other sub- 
jects which differ in species. The place for instance, 
of greater and Jess; for there will not be a whit more 
advantage in deducing a syllogism or an enthymem 
from this place, on a question of justice or of natural 
philosophy, than on any other subject whatsoever ; 
and yet there are questions specifically distinct. But 
I call peculiar, all those reasonings which arise out of 
propositions conversant with each species and genus 
of subjects; for instance, there are propositions on 
subjects of natural philosophy’ out of which neither 


15 By the τὸ αὐτὸ γένος is understood a common circum- 
stance and property of nature; by the τὸ οὐτὸ καθόλου, the 
general proposition in reference to all such cases. 

16 Διαλεκτικοὺς Kal ῥητορικοὺς, i. 6. So exactly correspond- 
ing, in point of extent, to these arts, as to be applivable as 
often, and with as little limitation, as they are themselves. 

17 This appears evident enough; yet the whole system of 
judicial astrology and the planetary influences was notbing 
more than an attempt of the kind. 


CHAF. II.] RHETORIC. a 


enthymem nor syllogism could be constructed respect- 
ing morals; and on this subject, again, there are 
others out of which will arise no reasoning respecting 
natural philosophy ; this is also the case equally on 
every subject. Now the first-mentioned reasonings 
(the τόποι) will render a man informed on no class of 
subjects, for they are about no distinct subject-matter : 
as to the other (téa), the orator, in proportion as he 
makes the better '® selection of propositions peculiar, 
will imperceptibly produce a science different from 
mere rhetoric or logic; for, if he light on first prin- 
ciples, thenceforth, it will no longer be rhetoric or 
logic which he is employing, but that science whose 
principles he embraces. 

The greatest number of enthymems are constructed 
put of these peculiar propositions, which are particu- 
lar and limited; and from the universal ones, the 
less. Just then as I did in the Topics, so here must 
I make a distinction of the peculiar”® propositions and 
places of enthymems, whence we are to deduce them. 
Now I mean by εἶδη, those propositions which are 
peculiar to the several kinds of rhetoric; by τόποι, 
those which are common alike to all. Let us then 
treat of the special propositions before the others. 
Let us, however, first ascertain the kinds of rhetoric 
itself ; in order that having distinguished them as to 


18 Βελτίω,. ie. better, qua the art in question is concerned ; 
—though as regarded by the logician or rhetorician, they will be 
in fact worse, inasmuch as they tend to merge these faculties, 
whose characteristic is universal applicability, in that particu- 
lar art from whence the προτάσεις happen to be deduced. 

19 We may here mention that διαλεκτικὴ is not quite what 
we understand by logic, but seems rather to have been the 
faculty of conversation, which the ancients cultivated as a sci- 
ence, and of which logic was a species. ‘“‘ Zeno, the Eleatic, 
divided his dialectics into three parts: on consequences, épw- 
τήσις and ἐριστικὴ.᾽᾽ Whately’s Logic. Diog. Laert. in Pla- 
tone, 52, § 87. 

* He here designates, by the name εἴδη, those propositions 
of limited applicability which he had before called ἔδεα ; those, 
in fact, which he considers as contradistinguished from the 
τόποι or general arguments, which he tells us are applicable 
το ἃ Ὅτι ας of subjects as little limited as the subjects of rheto- 
rie itse 


22. 


εἶδ.) first 
discussed, 


1, Anora- 
tion pre- 
supposes 
three 
things : 
Ist. a 
speaker : 
2nd. a 
subject : 
8rd. a 
hearer. 
2. Hear- 
ers of 
three 
sorts. 


8. Hence 
three 
kinds of 
rhetoric ; 
Delibera- 
tive, Ju- 
dicial, 
Epideic- 
tic. 
Business. 


4. Time 


24 ARISTOTLE’S Luoox 1. 


their number, we may separately ascertain the ele- 
ments of persuasion and propositions peculiar to 
each?!, 


CHAP. III. 


He shows that there are three kinds of Rhetoric ; what ts 
the end of each ; and on what subject we must provide 
ourselves with propositions, 


ΤῊΒ species of rhetoric are three in number, for of 
so many descriptions are the hearers of orations ; be- 
cause an oration is constituted of three things, of the 
speaker, and of the subject about which he speaks, 
and of the person to whom; and to him it is that 
the end of the speech has its reference ; I mean to 
the hearer. The hearer must of necessity be either 
an unconcerned hearer, or a judge; anda judge 
either of things past or to come; one then acts as 
judge respecting what is yet to happen, as the mem- 
ber of a popular assembly ; the other respecting what 
has already taken place, as the president of a court 
of justice; the other respecting the abilities of the 
orator, as the unconcerned hearer!. ‘Thus, then, 
there will necessarily result three kinds of orations, 
the deliberative, judicial, and demonstrative?. The 
business of deliberation is partly exhortation, partly 
dissuasion ; for invariably those who in their indivi- 
dual capacities simply advise, and those who publicly 
harangue, effect one of these objects. The business 
of judicial rhetoric is partly accusation, partly de- 
fence ; for the litigants must of course do one or the 
other of these things. Of demonstrative the busi- 
ness is partly praise, partly blame. Moreover the 


21 Cf. lib. ii. c. 22, ὁ 13: στοιχεῖον δὲ λέγω καὶ τόπον ἐνθυ- 
μήματος τὸ αὐτό: and lib. ii. c. 26, δ1: τὸ yap αὐτὸ λέγω 
στοιχεῖον καὶ τόπον. 3 

1 Both hearers are interested; but the ϑεωρὸς is ἃ specula- 
tive, the κριτὴς a practical, auditor. 

3 Vide Quarterly Review, July, 1822, No. liv. vol. 27,p 391. 


CHAP. I1I.] RHETORIC. : 25 


- time proper to each of these respectively is, to the 
deliberative orator, the futwre; for in exhorting or 
dissuading, he advises respecting things future®. The 
time proper to a judicial pleader is the past; for it 
is ever on the subject of actions already done, that 
the one party accuses, and the other defends. To 
the demonstrative orator the present time is the most 
appropriate, for it is in reference to qualities actually 
possessed that all either praise or blame. Orators, 
however, do very frequently avail themselves of 
other times; as well by awakening a recollection of 
what has already happened, as by anticipating what 
is likely to happen. The end of each of these 
branches is different, and, as belonging to three sub- 
jects, is itself triple. 

The object of the deliberative orator is the expe- 
dient and inexpedient ; for he who recommends, ad- 
vises you to adopt the better measure; but he who 
dissuades, diverts you from the worse; the other 
considerations either of justice and injustice, of 
honour or disgrace, he adjoins by the way, in addi- 
tion to these two. The object of the judicial pleader 
is justice and injustice ; but he also embraces by the 
way those other considerations. The object of those 
who praise and blame is honour and disgrace ; and 
these also refer other considerations to these two. 

But we may take as a sign that what I have stated 
is the particular object of each, the fact that there 
are times when they will not feel inclined even to 
raise a question about the other: the litigant, for 
example, will not always deny that the fact has taken 
place, or that it has hurt the other party; but he 


3 ἐξ Passion may be as much excited by the orator’s reason- 
ings on a future event, as on one past; and indeed the future, 
ceteris paribus, produces the greater effect on us, as that to 
which we are approaching, and what every moment gives us 
the added interest in, which it takes from the past. But then 
the past has the counterbalancing privilege of being susceptible 
of infinitely better testimony and evidence, from memory, pre- 
sent effects, etc.; memory, indeed, the great eye of the mind, 
unlike that of the body, sees all we have left behind, and no- 
thing before it.” Campbell, Phil. of Rhet 


5. and end 
peculiar 
to each, 


6. Proof 
of this 
from faet 


26 ARISTOTLE’S [Book Σ. 


never, under any circumstances, would admit that he 
has been guilty of injustice toward him; for then 
would there be no need of a judicial decision. In the 
same way the deliberative orator very often aban- 
dons the other considerations ; but as to the point 
that he is advising what is disadvantageous, or dis- 
suading from what is useful, this will he never admit ; 
but it frequently happens that (on a question of in- 
vasion) they do not trouble themselves to make out 
that the subjugating a neighbouring people is not in- 
consistent with justice. Just so those who praise 
and blame do not consider whether the person’s con- 
duct has been advantageous or disadvantageous ; nay, 
they, in many instances, set it down on the score of 
praise, that, overlooking his own interests, he wrought 
some deed of honour: thus they praise Achilles, be- 
cause he came to aid the cause of his comrade Pa 
troclus, with full knowledge that himself was fated 
to die; it being in his power, [by withholding that 
aid,| to live. To him, however, a death such as this 
was the more honourable prize: but to live would 
have been advantageous. 

7. The From what has been said, it is plain that the orator 

erator in must first be in possession of propositions on the sub- 

each class . mite αι 

iat ject of each of these divisions, separately; for the 

have xot- τεκμήρια, the probabilities and signs, are degrees of 

véacs. proof available to rhetoric generally. Itis necessary 

"because syllogism, in general, is made up of proposi- 

tions, and the enthymem is a syllogism made up of 
the propositions which have been mentioned. 

8. And as it cannot be that what is impossible should 
ever heretofore have been done or should ever be 
done hereafter, but what is possible, only: as again 
it cannot be that what has not happened, or that 
what is never about to happen, ever should, the one 
have been already done, the other be about to be 
done: it becomes necessary for the deliberative, ju- 
dicial, and demonstrative orator to have propositions 
on the subject of possibility and impossibility; and 
on the questions, whether a fact has or has not hap- 

9. pened, will or will not take place. And further, 


CHAP. IiI.] RHETORIC. 27 


since all, as well in praising as in blaming, as well in 
exhorting as in dissuading, as well in accusing as in 
defending, attempt to evince not only the points I 
have mentioned, but likewise to prove respecting this 
good or bad, this honourable or dishonourable, this 
just or unjust, that it is, moreover, either great or 
small, whether speaking of the things independently, 
or comparing them respectively one with another: 
as this is the case, it is plain that it will be necessary 
to have propositions respecting the degrees of great 
and small, of greater and less, as well general, as pe- 
culiar to each division: what good, for instance, is 
greater or less, what deviation from justice, or what 
conformity to it; and so in the same way also re- 
specting the other subjects. The points then have 
been stated, respecting which it will be absolutely 
necessary to get at propositions. We must, after this, 
make a distinction between each of these respectively ; 
the questions, for instance, about which deliberation 
is conversant ; those, too, about which demonstra- 
tive rhetoric is concerned ; and, thirdly, those about 
which judicial. 


CHAP. IV. 


The Questions relative to which that Orator should be tn 
possession of Propositions, who is about to advise on 
points of the highest concernment. 


First, then, we must ascertain what kind of good 
or evil it is respecting which the deliberative orator 
gives his advice; for we have seen that it is not about 
every kind, but about such as may or may not befall 
us!, Such however as either has or will have an 
existence of necessity ; such, again, as it is impossible 
should exist or be produced; respecting every such 
description [of good or evil] there never is any de- 


! This limitation was established in cap. ii. § 12. He de- 
yelopes this point more fully, Nich. Eth. ii. cap. 3, 


1. The 
delibera- 
tive orator 
advises on 
subjects, 


2. not ne- 
cessary, 


? 


3. nor on 
all that 
are con- 
tingent ; 


but where 
we appre- 
hend a 

; power of 
perform- 
ance. 


4. Minute 
discus- 
sions here 
to be 
avoided, 
as not in 
the pro- 
vince of 
rhetoric, 


δ. which 
is made 
np of the 


28 ARISTOTLE’S | BOOK 4. 


liberation: neither, in fact, is there about every one 
even of contingent subjects; for of goods which may 
or may not accrue”, some exist naturally, others are 
produced by chance, on the subject of which it is not 
worth while to deliberate; but evidently [he is con 
fined to subjects ] about which men resolve ; of which 
character are all such as are of a nature to be referred 
to ourselves, and the first principle of whose creation 
is in our own power; for in deliberation we carry 
on our views thus far, viz. till we shall ascertain 
whether the achievement of the object be possible to 
us or not, 

Now, to enumerate in accurate detail, and to di- 
vide into separate species, every subject about which 
men are wont to interest themselves; to enter more- 
over into minute distinctions conformable to the stand- 
ard of truth to the very utmost that the subject ad- 
mits it; these inquiries it is not necessary, on the 
present occasion, to institute, by reason that they be- 
long not to the art of rhetoric, but to some art whose 
province is, in a more peculiar manner, intellect, and 
truth*; and because many speculations more than 
are proper to this art have already been assigned to 
it. For that remark is true, which I have before 
made; that rhetoric is made up of the science of 


2 Τῶν ἐνδεχομένων καὶ γίγνεσθαι καὶ μή. It may be well to 
remark of this expression, which has occurred so often already, 
and will much more frequently in the sequel, that it is Aristo- 
tle’s usual appellative for things contingent, things which may 
as well happen as not. He has himself defined it thus—Aéyw 
δ᾽ ἐνδέχεσθαι, καὶ τὸ ἐνδεχόμενον, οὗ μὴ ὄντος ἀναγκαίου, τεθέν- 
τος δ᾽ ὑπάρχειν, οὐδὲν ἔσται διὰ τοῦτ᾽ ἀδύνατον. Anal. Pri. lib. 
i. c. 13. I call that a contingent, which not being necessary, 
but being supposed to be, there will follow nothing impossible 
from such a supposition. 

3 “Inciditur omnis jam deliberatio si intelligitur non posse 
fieri, aut si necessitas affertur.’”” Cicero de Orat. ii. For an 
account of things, δυνατὰ ἡμῖν, vid. lib. ii. c. 19. 

4 Such minute research, as it tends rather to bewilder, must 
of necessity be excluded from rhetoric, which is always sup- 

osed to address an audience of ordinary abilities; ὁ κριτὴς 
ὑπόκειται εἶναι ἁπλοῦς, cap. ii. § 13; whereas such distinc. 
tions could on!y be appreciated by the philosopher and man 
of education. 


CHAP. IV. ] RHETORIC. 29 


logic®, and of that branch of the science of social life analytica. 

which recognises the subject of morals; and it partly 274 ρος 
τ σον : litical 5ι1- 

resembles logic, partly the declamations of the 80- ences; 

phists: and in exact proportion as one shall attempt leg: 

. . Ἢ T 
to get up logic or rhetoric, not as they are general arts 
faculties, but as distinct sciences, he will unwittingly not asa 
do away their nature by his encroaching, in the act faculty | 

Mets . - but ἃ sci- 
of so tricking them out, upon sciences of certain defi- ence de- 
nite subject-matter, and not of words alone. Let us, viates 
however, even on the present occasion, discuss such pat the 

points as it is worth while to enlarge upon, and 7,” 
which still reserve the more full consideration for ,, 

/ . . . . ive occa- 
the science of social life: for nearly all the questions sions for 
on which men deliberate, and on which the delibera- the em- 

‘ . ployment 
tive orator harangues, those at least of the highest (ra aye- 
concernment, are in number jive®; and these are rative ora- 
questions of finance, of war and peace, and again re- tory. | 

πόροι. 


specting the safeguard of the territory, and respect- ᾿ wikis 
ing imports and exports, and also respecting legisla- μοι. 3. 


ture. pipiens 
So that it will be fitting that the orator, who is 5. bh πλόος 


about to give his advice on the subject of the finance 8. i. πό- 
of the state, be acquainted with its revenues, both ie a= 


5 The analytical science seems to have been the analysis of 
arguments. 

6. All society supposes Jaw (νόμοι) - the first object of which 
is the support of its inhabitants internally (τροφὴ) ; and the 
second tts territory externally (φυλακὴ) ; in maintaining which 
war (πόλεμος) must some time or other be unavoidable, and to 
carry that on, fixed revenues (πόροι) are requisite. We may 
observe, then, a regular gradation in these five questions ; 
though in his examination of them Aristotle proceeds analy- 
tically, and takes that which first presents itself in civilized 
society ; namely, the ways and means. Xenophon also, in his 
Memorabilia, represents Socrates as using nearly the same five 
‘subjects and arrangement, when dissuading Glaucon, a young 
Athenian, from attempting politics too early. Perhaps Aris- 
totle may have borrowed the hint from him. Cf. Xenoph. 
Mem. lib. iii. c. 6: and a translation of the whole passage in 
the posthumous works of Dr. Franklin, vol. v. p. 77. Lond. 
1819. The reader will find an instance of τροφὴ practised by 
the piratical states of Greece, in Thucydides, lib. i. c. 5, and 
of πόροι in the first tax levied at Rome, when the militia were 
ae into a standing army, during the war with Veii. Livy, 
i . lV. 


9. ii, πό- 
λεμος Kal 
εἰρήνη. 
War and 
peace. 


80 ARISTOTLE’S | Boox f. - 


what and how great they may be; in order that, if 
any branch is overlooked, it may be added to the 
rest ; and, if any be in default, it may be augmented. 


Moreover he should be acquainted with the whole 


expenditure of the state, that if any expense be su- 
perfluous it may be curtailed ; if any too high, it may 
be reduced. For men become more wealthy, not 
only by adding to their capital stock, but by detract- 
ing from their expenses as well. These, however, are 
points which we must not only learn from our own 
experience as individuals ; but, with a view to de- 
liberation on these subjects, one ought to be qualified 
by a research into the discoveries made by other 
people. 

Respecting questions of war and peace, the orator 
must needs be acquainted with the force of the state, 
how great it actually is already, and how great it 
admits of becoming; of what description also it is 
already, and what additions admit of being made to 
it. Moreover he should know both what wars the 
state has been engaged in, and how it has conducted 
them. ‘This must he needs know, not in relation to 
his own state only, but as regards frontier states 
also; particularly in the case of those with whom 
there is a likelihood of being at war, in order that 
toward the more powerful, pacific measures may be 
held, and that in regard to the weaker, it may rest 
with his own state to make war or not. He should 
also be acquainted with the description of force which 
belongs to each state, whether it resemble or differ? 
from his own; for it is possible, even in this respect, 
to secure an advantage to yourself, or to have one 
taken by the enemy. In order to all which things, 
the orator must necessarily have considered with at- 
tention the wars, not of his own state only, but those 
also of others, what has been their issue; for it is 
natural that from similar causes similar results should 
accrue. 

7 See this point touched on by Pericles, Thucyd. i. 141 


where he declares the Peloponnesians to be πολεμεῖν, μὴ πρὸν 
ὁμοίαν ἀντιπαρασκεύην, ἀδύνατοι. 


.»» 


"CHAP. IV.] RHETORIC. 8. 


Moreover as regards the safeguard of the terri- 
tory, it should not escape his attention how that is 
preserved; but he must be acquainted as well with 
the numbers,.as the nature of the garrisons, and with 
the positions of the strong holds: this it is impossi- 
ble that one not acquainted with the country should 
know. But known it must be, in order that if any 
garrison be weak, it may be reinforced; if any be 
unnecessary, it may be done away, and the force 
may rather maintain positions strictly adapted to 
defence. 

Again, on the subject of provision, the orator 
should know how great a consumption is sufficient to 
subsist the state, and of what kind that is which 
arises at home, and what is imported; and those 
nations whose exports there is need of, and those to 
whose markets he wants to import his home produc- 
tions, in order that commercial treaties and agree- 
ments may be entered into with them. [All this 
should the orator be acquainted with], because it is 
absolutely necessary strictly to preserve your citi- 
zens from any ground of quarrel in two of their 
relations, viz. in respect to those physically their su- 
periors®, and those who may be serviceable in afore- 
mentioned points. 

Thus much then it is absolutely necessary that the 
deliberative orator should be able to consider, in 
order to the security of the state; neither is an at- 
tention to legislation the least essential; for in its 
legislative enactments stands the safety of the state. 
And thus it becomes requisite, both that he should 
know how many forms of government there are, and 
what system of things is expedient for each; and 
what things, as well peculiar to the government, as 
opposite to it, have a natural tendency to destroy 
105, I talk of a government being destroyed by 


® He gives hints, § 9, about what is necessary, ὁπῶς πρὸς 
μὲν τοὺς κρείτους εἰρηνεύηται. 

9 For a statement of the things, peculiar to democracy and 
oligarchy, which have a tendency to destroy them, see the 
speeches of Megabyzus and Darius, on the question of the coii- 


10. iii. pv 
λακὴ. 
Safe- 
guard of 
the coun- 


try. 


11. iv. 
τροφή. 
Provi- 
sion, i. 6. 
imports 
and ex- 
ports. 


12. v. νό 
μοι. Le 
gisletion 


13. 


The ac- 
counts 
given by 
travellers 
of foreign 
states are 
also use- 
ful, 


3% ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK 1. 


things peculiar to itself; because .with the exception 
of the most excellent form of government, every 
other, by being relaxed or strained too much, de- 
stroys itself. ‘Thus a democracy, not only when 
relaxed, but even when overstrained, grows weaker, 
and thus will at last be brought an oligarchy. 
Just as hookedness or flatness of the nose, not only 
approach the mean in proportion as they relax from 
the excess, but also, when they become excessively 
hooked or flat, dispose the nostrils in such a way as 
no longer so resemble the nasal organ. 

It is serviceable moreover with a view to legisla- 
tion, to apprehend not only what constitution is ex- 
pedient, by deriving your view from circumstances 
past, but to become acquainted also with the consti- 
tution of other states, and to what kind of constitu- 
tions what sort of measures are adapted. Thus it is 
plain, that accounts of travellers are of use with a 
view to legislation ; for hence we are able to ascer- 
tain what the laws of other nations are; and with a 
view to debates on matters of state, the researches of 
those who write on human conduct are useful: all 
these points however form part, not of rhetoric, but 
of the science of social life. | 

So many then are the questions of highest con- 
cern touching which the deliberative orator must be 
in possession of propositions. We will, however 
again discuss the elements out of which it is proper 
to exhort and dissuade, as well on these as on other 
questions. 


stitution fittest for Persia, after the assassination of Smerdis, 
the Magian usurper. Herodot. iii. 81, 82. See also Eth. Nich. 
viii. 10. 


GHA2. V.] RHETORIC. 83 


CHAP. V. 


The Objects at which Orators should aim in exhorting or 
dissuading.— What Happiness is ; and whence tts con- 
stituents are deduced. 


NEARLY every one individually, and all men in ge~ 
neral, have some object, at which directing every aim, 
they both choose and avoid; and this, to speak sum- 
marily, is happiness! and its constituents. Let us 
then, for the sake of getting at a received standard, 
ascertain what happiness, generally speaking, is; and 
what are its constituents; for on the subject of it, 
and what conduces to it, and of its opposites, exhorta- 
tion or dissuasion is always conversant ; and this, be- 
cause we needs do the things whieh procure it or any 
of its constituents, or which render it greater from 
having been less, and refrain from doing the things 
which destroy or impede it, or produce its opposites. 

Let happiness then be defined to be good fortune 
in conjunction with virtue?,—or, independency of life, 
—or, the life which is most pleasant, accompanied by 
security,—or, abundance of property and slaves, with 
power to preserve and augment it; for mankind al- 
low either one or more of these things to amount 
nearly to happiness. If then happiness be such as I 
have described, its constituents must necessarily be— 
Ist, noble birth*, many and excellent friends, wealth, 
a good and numerous offspring, a good old age; and 
moreover personal excellencies; as health, comeli- 
ness, strength, stature, ability in the games; character; 

1 The end of deliberation is τὰ συμφέροντα, of action 
εὐδαιμονία. 

3 The first of these is the opinion of the Socratic school; the 


second, of the Stoics; the third, of the Epicureans; the last, 
ee ise one. See a similar description, Hooker, v. ᾧ 76, 
p- , 

3. Of these, the first enumerated as far as “‘ character ’’ in- 
elusive, may be considered δυνάμεις : the two next, “‘ honour 
and good fortune,’’ as τίμια : the last, namely, ‘‘ virtue and its 
constituents,” as ἐπαινετὰ, according tv the mode of philo- 
sophic division mentioned in the Ethics, iib, i. ο. 12. 

bd 


3. Four 
defini- 
tions of it. 


4, 


Goods are 
internal 
or exter- 
nal. 


5. Exter- 
al 


nal. 
Ist. High 
birth. 
i. Na- 
tional. 


ii. Indi- 
vidual. 


6. Good 
offapring 
i, Publi: 


ii. Pri- 
vate. 


34 ARISTOTLE’S [soox ἵ 


—2nd, honour, good fortune ;—3rd, virtue, and its 
constituents, prudence, courage, justice, temperance. 
Thus furnished, one would be most independent, were 
both external and internal goods his own ; for besides 
these there are no others. But the internal goods 
are mental and personal; the external, noble birth, 
friends, wealth, and distinction. We deem, moreover, 
that power and good fortune ought to be present, for 
thus would life be most independent. Wherefore, 
let us ascertain what each of these advantages is.— 
Noble birth then is, in the case of a nation or state, 
their being aborigines‘, or at least ancient possessors, 
and for their first leaders to have been illustrious, ané 
indeed for many to have been born from among ther. 
illustrious on the score of things which men emulate. 
Considered in reference to individuals, noble birth is 
derivable from male or female ancestry, and legiti- 
macy on both sides ; and, just as in the case of a state, 
to have had the first of their line well known on the 
score of virtue, wealth, or any other valued quality; 
and for many of their kindred to have been illustri- 
ous, as well men as women, as well young as old :-— 
we cannot be at a loss for the constituents of a good 
and numerous progeny. As referred to the common- 
wealth ; a good offspring will be, youth who are nu- 
merous and accomplished. Accomplished in respect 
to personal excellence, as stature, comeliness, strength, 
ability in the games: and as to that of the mind, 
temperance and courage; these all, in their two di- 
visions, are excellencies of the young. In reference 
to individuals, a good and numerous offspring con- 
sists in your own children being numerous, and they, 
as well male as female, such as I have described, 
The excellence of females in regard to person, i8 
beauty and stature; in regard to the mind, temper- 
ance and fondness for employment, without meanness: 
—and we ought, as well individually as collectively, 


* It was the boast of the Athenians that they were αὐτόχθο- 
yes; and in reference to this Cicero says of their state, “ Que 
vetustate ea est, ut ipsa ex sese suos cives genuisse dicatur.” 
Orat. pro L. Flacco. 


Rows, 


twat. v.? RHETORIC. 30 


in respect both to men and women, to see that each 
of these qualities exists. Since all states among 
whom the regulations regarding women are bad (as 
is the case among the Lacedzmonians), enjoy searcely 
the half of happiness. 

The constituents of wealth are, plenty of money, 7. Wealth 
the being master of lands and seats, with the posses- ™¥St be, 
sion moreover of personal property of live stock and 
slaves, such as are remarkable for number, stature, 
and comeliness; and all these should be secure, and 
respectable, and useful. The useful are of that de- i. ἀσφα. 
scription rather which are profitable; the respectable, λῆ 
which conduce to enjoyment. But by profitable 1 gZo.¢. 
mean those out of which the rent arises; by those iii. χρή- 
conducing to enjoyment, all out of which arises no- °‘** 
thing (that’s worth mentioning at least) beyond their 
mere use. The definition of security is the having 
possession there, and in such a manner, that the 
enjoyment of the property is one’s own. The essen- 
tials of a property then exist, when the right of 
alienating is in one’s hands: I understand by aliena- 
tion either gift or sale. But, in a word, the being 
rich stands more in enjoyment than in possession ; 
for the active employment and the use of such means 
is wealth. 

Goodness of character is the apprehension of man- 8. Good-. 
kind, that you are a worthy person, or in possession as bah 
of something of such a kind that all men aim at it, i 
or at least the generality, or the good, or the well- 
judging. Honour is an evidence of your having a 9. Ha. 
character for beneficence; and those are honoured Οὔτ. 
with justice, and in an eminent degree®, whose bene- 
ficence has already been exercised: not but that he, 
too, is honoured who simply has the power to benefit. 
Beneficence relates either to the safety, and the 
causes, whatever they are, of the existence of its 
object, or to his wealth, or to any other goods whose 
acquisition is not easy, whether it be so generally, 
or at that place or time. For many meet with honour ——— 

5 Aristotle’s οἱ εὐεργετηκότες may be found be.utifully 
enumerated in the book of Ecclesiasticus, chap. 44. 

D2 


&. 


Health. 


11. 


Beauty. 


36 AKISTOTLE’S [BOOK 1. 


in consequence of things apparently trifling Εν but then 
_it is the manner or the time | of conierring 


“which is the reason. The constituent parts 0 


“are sacrifices, —monumental inscriptions, in metre or 
prose,—rewards,—consecrated pieces of ground ®,— 
precedence,—public burial,—statues,—pensions from 
the state; those received among barbarians are— 
prostration,—giving place’. The presents also usual 
among each people are, with them, respectively marks 
of honour; for a present is at once the gift of pro- 
perty, and a mark of honour.. Wherefore it is that 
the avaricious are equally desirous of these, as the 
ambitious ; because they convey to both that which 
they desire, since at once it is a property, the object 
which the avaricious desire, and includes honour, the 
object of the ambitious. 

The excellencies of the body are health ; and that 
in such a degree as for us to be exempt from sick- 
ness, while we have the free exercise of the body, 
For many are in a state of health, indeed, whom, 
like Herodicus®, no one would feel inclined to con- 
gratulate on the score of health, by reason of their 
depriving themselves of most, if not all, the enjoy- 
ments proper to man. 

Comeliness is different according to the several 
ages. Now the comeliness of a youth, is the having 
a body useful in enduring toils, whether those of the 
course, or of personal exertion, himself being plea- 
sant withal to look upon with a view to delight. On 
which account those who practise the pentathlum-are 
most comely, inasmuch as they are formed for violent 


® Instanced in the compliment paid to the memory of 
Brasidas at Am is Sead Thucyd. v. Hooker, y. § 34, p. 133; 
and § 47, p. 17 

7 Here nega τ we may mention a remarkable compliment 
paid to fallen valour by the civil law; a father of three sons 
was entitled to considerable immunities, which continued to 
him even after their death, if they had fallen in battle; “ Hi 
enim qui pro Republica ceciderunt in perpetuum per gloriam 
vivere intelliguntur.” Instit. lib. ii. tit. xxv. ὁ 1. Hocker, 
ii. p. 293. 

* Herodicus was a physician, B. C 440 


= age PR: 


σελ». v.] RHETORIC 37 


exertion, and swiftness as well. But the comeliness 
of one who has attained life’s prime, is a person 
adapted to the fatigues of war, with an aspect to be 
looked upon with pleasure tempered by awe. That 
of the old consists in the body being capable of the 
fatigues which it needs must undergo, and exempt 
withal from pain, by reason that it has none of the 


afflictions by which an old age is disfigured. Strength 12 


is the capability of moving another at will: you move 
another, of course, either by dragging, or shoving, 
or lifting, or crushing him ; so that the man who is 
endowed with strength, is requisitely so for some, 
if not for all these purposes. Excellence of stature, 
is the exceeding the generality in height, substance, 
and breadth, in such a ratio as not, by reason of that 
excess, to render one’s motions more tardy. Gym- 
nastic excellence of person is made up of stature, 
strength, and speed; for the swift is also endued 
with strength: for he who is able to throw out his 
legs in a particular way, and move them rapidly, 
and in a forward direction, is fit for running ; but 
he who can crush and grapple with an adversary, 
is fit for wrestling ; while he who can send him for- 
ward by a blow, is the man for boxing: but if any 
be endued with the two latter qualifications, he is fit 
for a pancratiast; while he who has all three may 
contend in the pentathlum. 

A good old age is an old age slow in approach, un- 
attended by pain ; for neither is it a good old age if 
one grows rapidly old ; nor if he does so slowly, in- 
deed, but painfully: this blessing, however, is of the 
number both of the excellencies of the body and of 
fortune. For one who is neither unmolested by sick- 
ness, nor endued with strength, will not be exempt 
from sufferings ; and his days will be but few, and 
those not vcid of pain: nor without good fortune 
will he hold out at all. Indeed, independently both 
of strength and health there is means of long life ; 
for many, without the excellencies of the body, are 
long-lived. But accuracy of statement on these sub- 
jects makes nothing tc our present purpose. 


Strength. 


13. Sta- 
ture. 


14. Gyme 
nastic ex= 
cellence. 


15. Goad 
old age. 


26. 


Friends. 


17. 


Good 


fortune. 


18. 
tue. 


Vir- 


33 ARISTOTLE’S [Boom £,: 


In what number and excellence of friends consists 
is not doubtful, it having been distinetly stated, re- 
specting a friend, that he is a friend who exerts 
himself to do for another whatever he esteems good 
for him, solely for the other’s sake. He to whom 
many are so affected, has numerous friends ; he to. 
whom worthy men, has excellent friends. 

Good fortune is the accession, and actual pos-: 
session, either of all, of most, or the greatest of those: 
goods of which chance is the cause. Now chance is 
the cause of some things about which there are arts 
conversant®; of many things, too, unrecognised by 
art; for instance, of whatever things nature is ἃ 
cause ; for it is possible that they should happen con- 
trarily to nature: for art is a cause of health ; na- 
ture, of comeliness and stature. In a word, those 
goods. proceed from chance, about which envy is felt!” 
Chance is also a cause of those goods which baffle all 
calculation ; when, for instance, one is handsome, the 
rest of whose brothers are ugly ; or when every one 
else overlooked a treasure, and he found it; or if a 
weapon hit one’s neighbour and not one’s self; or if 
he alone, who used always to frequent a place, did 
not come there, while they who came then only were 
destroyed ; for all such things appear to be pieces of 
good luck. 

As to moral excellence, since that topic is most 
intimately connected with praise, we must lay down 
distinctions respecting it when we treat of the sub- 
ject of praise. It is then plain at what objects we 
ought to aim in exhorting, as likely to take place, or 


® On the affinity of art and chamce, see Eth. Nich. vn. 4.— 
Τέχμη τύχην ἔστερξε, καὶ τύχῃ τέχνην. Agatho. 

The affinity appears to consist in this, that arts very often 
owe their origin to chance; as the capital of the Corinthian 
pillar. for instance, from a basket of acanthus flowers; and 
painting from tracing a shadow on the wall. Compare alse 
the Poetics, ch. vi. where he deduces poetry from the 
αὐτοσχεδιάσματα or extemporaneous effusions of its rude 
votaries. 

* Cf. ch. x. § 12. 

" The subject of Epidesctic Khetoric. 


ἼΗΑΡ. νεῖ RHETUnIt 33 


already in existence; and what in dissuading, for 
they are the contraries of these. 


CHAP. VL. 
Of the Good and Expedient treated generally. 


SincE the expedient is the object proposed to the de- 
liberative orator, and as all form their conclusions, 
not about the end itself, but about the means con- 
ducive to that end ; as moreover these are all things 
which are expedient in reference to human conduct 
{now every thing expedient is a good), we shall have 
to ascertain certain elementary propositions, on the 
subjects of the good and the expedient in general. 
Let good, then, be defined to be, 1. Whatever is 
an object of choice independently, for its own sake ; 
2.and for the sake of which we choose something 
else. 3. What every thing aims at', or every thing 
which has perception, or which has intelligence; or 
every thing would aim at, were it possessed of intel- 
ligence. 4. Whatever intelligence would award to 
each. ὅ. Whatever the intelligence conversant with 
every instance awards to each, that to each indi- 
vidual is his good. 6. That which being present, one 
is well dispesed and independent. 7. Independency. 
8. Whatever produces or preserves such advantages ?; 
9. and that on which they are consequent. 10. What- 
ever, too, has a tendency to prevent or destroy their 
opposites. Now, things are consequent in two ways ; 
for either they may be consequent simultaneously or 
subsequently.—Knowledge, for instance, is a conse- 
quent on learning subseguently; life is so on health 
simultaneously. Again, things are productive in 


1 This principle, which he insists on even in his moral trea- 
tises, is peculiarly adapted for a test in rhetoric; where, if the 
subject be only reconciled to this standard of previous opinion, 
the end, persuasion, is forthwith answered. 

* Hooker, v. καὶ 65, p. 306. 


1. The de- 
liberative 
orator ad- 
vises on 

“ the 
means,” 
therefore 
he must 
know the 
συμφέ- 
ρον. 


2. 


3. Conse- 
quences 
are two- 
fold. 


Things 


are pro- 
ductive 
in three 
ways. 


4. Indis- 
putable 
goods. 


40° ARISTOTLE’S’ [BOOK τ΄ 


three ways*; first, in the way that the being healthy 
is productive of health, or as food is so of health,” 
or as exercise is, because usually it does produce 
health. 

These things being laid down, it must be of 
course that acquisitions of good, and the exemptions 
from evil, are good; for on the one is consequent 
the non-possession of evil simultaneously ; on the 
other, the possession of good subsequently. 

And the acquisition of a greater instead of a less 
good; of a less evil instead of a greater; for this be- 
comes an acquisition of the one and an exemption 
from the other, in the ratio of the excess of the 


. greater above the less. The virtues also must of 


course be a good, for in reference to them are their 
possessors well-disposed4; they are also productive of 
goods, and bear on moral conduct: respecting each, 
however, severally what, and of what kind it is, 


- must be distinctly treated. It must be also that 


pleasure is a good, for all living things naturally de- 
sire it. Thus, too, things pleasant and honourable 
must needs be good; for the first are productive of 
pleasure ; while, of things honourable, some are 
pleasant, and the rest are by themselves objects of 
choice on their own account. So that to speak οὗ. 
them severally, it must be that the following things 
are good.—Happiness; for it is both an object of 

choice by itself, and independent, and for the sake of it ἢ 


. we choose many things. Justice, courage, temperance, 


3. First, continuous; second, discrete; third, contingent. 

4 We may observe of Aristotle’s several enumerations of 
εἴδη, that he usually refers a few instances of earliest oeeur- 
rence to the respective definitions or axioms at the outset of 
the subject, by virtue of which they belong to the class to 
which he assigns them. Thus, in the enumeration of good 
here instituted, he refers to his general canons of goud which 
have just been admitted; 6. g. virtue may be classed among 
goods, by virtue of def. 5 and 7. It would be useful to pur- 
sue the comparison, if not throngh all the instances quoted, at 
least through the greater part of them; since it will at once 
serye the purpose of impressing on the memory his leading ex. 
amples, and of helping us to a fuller acquaintance with his 


theory. 


CHAP. γῇ] ‘RHETORIC, 4) 


magnanimity, magnificence, and other habits of that 
sort; for they are excellencies of the soul;—and health 
and comeliness, and things of that sort, for they are 
excellencies of the body, and productive of many 
things ; health, for instance, both of pleasure and of 
life ; and it seems, on this account, to be the very 
best possession, because it is the cause of two things, 
which the generality of men value most, viz. of plea- 
sure and life:—Wealth ; because it is an excellence of 
possession, and productive of many things. A friend 
and friendship; for a friend is an object of choice 
independently, and productive of many advantages. 
Honour, character ; for they are pleasant, and pro- 
ductive of much ; and there is usually consequent on 
them the actual possession of the qualities, on ac- 
count of which the subject is honoured. Ability, in 
speaking and acting ; for all such powers are produc- 
tive of good. Again, high genius, memory, readiness 
in learning, quickness of thought, and all such 
qualities ; for these faculties are productive of good ; 
and in the same way all the arts and sciences. And 
life ; for were no other good consequent on it, of itself 
it is an object of choice. And that which is just, 
for it is a kind of general advantage. Such, then, 
are the things which are good, as it were confessedly. 
But in the case of questionable goods, your reason- 
ings will be deduced from these formule,—that of 
which the contrary is an evil, is itself a good ; as is 
that of which the contrary is expedient to an enemy : 
for example, if your being cowards be above all 
things expedient to your enemies, it is plain, that to 
the citizens your courage will be above all things 
beneficial. And, in a word, whatever be the things 
which the enemy desires and in which they rejoice, 
the contrary of those things appear beneficial ; and 

hence was it well said ;— 

** Priam surely would exult,” etc. 1]. 4, 1. 2555, 


_§ See Otho’s speech to the soldiers on Vitellius’s usurpation 
after the murder of Galba:—Si Vitellio et satellitibus ejus 
eligendi facultas detur, quem nobis. anim:'m, quas mentes 
imprecentur ; quid aliud quam seditionem e! discordiam opta- 
bunt? Tacit. Hist. i. 84. 


20. 


21. 


42 ARISTOTLE’S [Boox αὶ 


And yet this case does not always hold, though it 
does generally ; for there is no reason why the self- 
same things should not, at times, be expedient to two 
hostile parties ; from which comes the saying that 
evils bring men together®, when the same thing hap- 
pens to ‘be injurious to both. That too is a good, 
which is not in excess’? ; but whatever exceeds what 


. it ought, is an evil. And that on account of which 


much toil or expense has been bestowed, for already 
will it have appeared to be a good; and we already 
conceive of every such thing as of an end, and as ar 
end of many efforts ; but the end is a good; and on 
this principle rests the force of that appeal, 

“It were in accordance forsooth with Priam’s heartiest 

prayer ;” Il. β,1. 176. 

and of this, 

‘* Base indeed is it to remain so long ;” II. β, 1. 298. 
and that of the proverb of 


*‘ Breaking the pitcher at the very door.” 
Vide Erasmi Adagia IT. i. 75. 


. That too of which many are desirous, and which 


appears to be disputed for ; because that of which all 
are desirous, was laid down to be a good; the gener- 
ality, however, have the appearance of being all, 


. And that which is recommended ; because no ene re- 


commends that which is not good’, And that which 
your enemies and the bad recommend; for all, as it 
were, already acknowledge it when even they do 
who are ill affected ; for solely on account of its being 
plainly such will these acknowledge 105: and in ex- 


§ So Shakspeare quotes the proverb, * Misery makes a man 
acquainted with strange bedfellows.” 
7 A good which requires no qualification; e. g. moral truths, 
8. To desire evil as evil, and feel pleasure in it as such, is 
verfectly unnatural. Hence St. Paul, in his Epistle to the 
Romans, ch. i. ver. 32, sums up the iniquity of-the Gentile 
world in this one word; that not only did they in person com- 
mit the enormities, but ‘‘ had pleasure in them that do them.” 
9 Virgil therefore could not have praised Aineas more than 
when he makes Diomede say,— 
Stetimus tela aspera contra, 
Contulimusque manus: experto credite, quantus 
In clypeum assurgat, quo turbine torqueat hastam. Ain 


omar. γι} RHETOR10 43 


actly the same way they are held to be but paltry 
characters [and with these even their friends find 
fault, and all good men] with whom their enemy 
finds no fault: on which very principle the Corin- 
thians conceived themselves to have been scandalized 
by Simonides introducing in his verses, 


“ Troy finds no fault with the Corinthians !°.” 


‘And that is a good which any who are practically wise, 25. 
whether among men or women, have preferred ; in- 
stanced in Minerva’s choice of Ulysses ; Theseus’ of 
Helen ; and the Goddesses’ of Paris!!; and Homer’s 
of Achilles. In a word, all objects of determined 26, 
choice are good. And men determinately choose to 
do both the things which have been mentioned, and 
those which are evil to foes and good to friends ; and 
those which are possible—these are varied in two 
ways ; such as may be done, and such as may easily 27. 
be done!*, Easy things are such as are done either 
without pain, or in a short time ; for difficulty is de- 
fined in reference either to the pain, or length of 
time. And men choose what is done as they wish ; 
and they wish what either is in no respect an evil, or 
in a less degree than it is good. This will occur in the 
case of unjust action, where the punishment either 
escapes notice or is trifling: and suck actions as are 28. 
peculiar ; as no one has done; or which are extra- 
ordinary, for thus is their value greater: and those 
things which have an adaptation to ourselves; of 
which kind are things belonging to us in respect of 
family, and power. ‘Things too which men consider 
are wanting to the completion of something else ; for 


1 Glaucus the Lycian, who was of Corinthian descent, as- 
sisted the Trojans, consequently Simonides meant to praise 
them; but from the known bias of this writer to “‘ censure in 
disguise,’ (of which another instance may be found, lib. 111. 
ch. 2,) the Corinthians might very fairly suspect his purpose. 

π Vid. ii, c. 23, § 12, sub fin. περὶ ᾿Αλεξάνδρου, “ ὃν αἱ θεαὶ 
mpoikpivav.” 

2 Vid. c. xii. δ 1, εἴτε ἂν Δ θεῖν πράξαντες, ἣ, μὴ λαθόντες» 
μὴ ὁὀοῦναι δίκην, κι τ. A. 


1. The 
greater 
zood must 
fa dis- 


cussed, 


2. Defin:- 
tion of the 
excess and 
the ex- 


ceeded. 


44 ARISTOTLE’S ‘nook t 


be they ever so trifling 15, they in no less degree de« 
termine on putting them in execution: and things 
easily brought about; for they are possible, inas- 
much as they are easy: but things easily brought 
about, are such as every one, or many, or our equals, 
or our inferiors, have succeeded in. Whatever gra 

tifies one’s friends, or will be disliked by one’s foes. 
Every thing, too, which they whom we admire de- 
liberately set about. Things toward which men are 
well fitted by nature, and about which they have ex- 
perience ; for they suppose they shall more easily 
succeed in them. Things too which no bad man 
does; for they are the rather commendable. What 
people happen to be desirous of ; for not only does it 
appear pleasant, but it is viewed in the more favour- 


. able light'*. And men more particularly choose on 


deliberation the things in reference to which they 
severally are of a certain disposition ; the ambitious, 
for instance, if the object be victory ; the avaricious, 
if it be money ; and other characters in the same way. 
On questions then of good and of expediency, we 
must deduce our means of persuading from hence, 


CHAP. VII. 


On the subject of the greater Good, and the more expedient 
Measures, 


Burt as the advocates of opposite measures, while 
they in many instances allow both to be expedient, 
dispute nevertheless on the question which is the 
more so; we shall have next to speak of greater good, 
and what is in a higher degree expedient. Let ex- 
cess, then, be defined to be, as much and yet more; 
the thing exceeded, however, to be that comprised 


18. So Horace........-O! si angulus ille 
Proximus accedat, qui nunc denormat agellum { 


'* If seen through che deceitful medium of desire. 


_OHAP, γ11.} RHETORIC, 45 


within the excess. Again, greater and more! are 
terms relative always to some particular /ess thing :? 
but great or small, much or little, have reference to 
the size of things generally. And that which is great 
exceeds; but that which is deficient is small; and of 
the terms much and little in the like manner. 

Now as we call that good, which, independently, 
for its own sake, and not on account of any thing else, 
is an object of choice ; that, too, which every thing 
desires ; and which, if invested with intelligence and 
practical wisdom, every thing would choose ; as also 
what is preservative or productive of, or on which 
such things are consequent ; and as that, with a view 
to which we act, is the end; and as an end is that 
for whose sake every thing 6156 is done: but that is 
good to a man’s self which has these affections in re- 
ference to himself: this being the case, it must be 
that plurality is a greater good than one or a few, 
provided that one or those few be enumerated in con- 
junction with it?; for it then exceeds them, and the 
within comprised one or few is exceeded. And if the 
greatest individual of one species exceed the great- 
est individual of another, then also will the first spe- 
cies itself exceed the second.4 And, vice versa, 
wherever one species exceeds another, the greatest 


1 Greater, in reference to quantity continuous, or magnitude 3 
more, in reference to quantity discrete, or multitude. 

3 The meaning of this passage appears to be this,—that 
while all terms designating quantity are relative, the gram- 
matical degrees of comparison imply relation to certain objects 
then more immediately before us. Those who are puzzled by 
this doctrine of excess and defect, had better take Victorius’s 
hint, and illustrate each remark by an example from numbers. 

8 This qualification is absolutely necessary to the truth of 
the position; for it may happen, if the plurality be not of 
things of the same species as the less number, that the less 
number is of higher value than the greater. F%ve guineas are 
“a greater good”’ than two, i. 6. the greater number than the 
‘less, of things of the same species; yet it does not therefore 
follow that five farthings are better than two guineas, for there 
the less number is not, as in the first case it was, virtually enu- 
merated in the greater. Compare Ethics, lib. i. c. vii. ᾧ 8. 

4 Or, as Lord Bacon expresses it, ‘‘ That kind is altogether 
best, whose excellence or pre-eminence is best,” 

Φ 


3. Differ. 
ent στοῖ- 
χεῖα of 
the great 
er good. 


ε 


46 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK 1. 


individual of the exceeding, exceeds the greatest in- 
dividuals of the exceeded species: for example, if the 
greatest man be greater than the greatest woman, 
then will also men, in general, be greater than women ; 
and if men generally be greater than women, then 
will also the greatest man be greater than the great- 
est woman; for the excesses of species, and of the 
greatest individuals under them, have a common ra- 
5. tio.» When one thing is a consequence of another, 
but that other thing is not a consequence of it ; (now, 
things are consequent, recollect, either simultaneously 
or subsequently, or virtually ;) then is that of which 
the other is a consequence the greater good; because 
the enjoyment of the consequent is inherent in the 
enjoyment of the other. Things are consequent si- 
multaneously, as life on health ; but it is not conse- 
quent on life: and subsequently, as knowledge on 
learning ; virtually, as larceny on sacrilege; for the 
man who has committed sacrilege would be ready also 
6. to steal. ‘Things which exceed the same thing in a 
greater degree [than itself], are greater®; for of ne- 
7. cessity they exceed even the greater. Things produc- 
tive of a greater good are greater, for this would be 
by virtue of their being productive of something 
greater. ‘That, too, the productive cause of which is 
greater, is likewise greater; for if that which is 
healthy, be preferable to, and a greater good than, 
that which is pleasant; then also will health be su- 
8. perior to pleasure. As also that which, independently 
of any thing, is preferable, is superior to that which 
is not preferable independently: thus strength is 
above things conducing to health; for the latter are 
not sought on their own account, while the former is, 
9. the which was assumed as a criterion of good. And 
should one object be an end, the other not an end ; 


5 As is the excess of the male above the female sex, so is 
the excess of the greatest man above the greatest woman; and 
conversely, as is the excess of the greatest man above the great- 
est woman, so is the excess of the male above the female sex. 

5 E. g. Eight exceeds two by six, which is also greater than 
the original number two. 


an =e = 


OHAP. ν11.} RHETORIC. 47 


for the one is for the sake of something else, the other, 
for its own sake; thus is exercise inferior to a good 
habit of body’. That too 15 ἃ greater good which in 
a less degree stands in need of any one or more things 
as accessions, for it is in a higher degree independent : 
now that is said less to need accessions, which needs 
such as either are fewer or more easily obtained. 
And whenever one thing does not exist, nor can pos- 
sibly be brought into existence independently of ano- 
ther, but that other can without it; then that which 
needs not the accession, is more independent, and thus 
shows itself to be a greater good. Again, if one be 
a principle and the other not; and for the same rea- 
son, if one be a cause, the other not; since without a 
cause or principle, existence or production is impos- 
sible*. And of goods both proceeding from princi- 
ples, that is the greater good which arises from the 
higher principle ; as also that is the greater good which 
originates in the higher of two causes. And, vice 
versa, that of two principles which is the principle of 
the greater good, is greater ; and that of two causes 
which is the cause of the greater, is itself greater. 
It is evident then from what has been said, that it is 
possible for a thing to appear the greater both ways ; 
for supposing this to be a principle, and the other 
not, it will appear the greater; as also will it, sup- 
posing it not to be a principle’? while the other is ; 


7 Man’s will hath two several kinds of operation, the one 
natural or necessary, whereby it desireth simply whatsoever is 
good in itself, and shunneth as generally all things which hurt ; 
the other deliberate, when we therefore embrace things as 
good, because the eye of understanding judgeth them good to 
that end which we simply desire. Thus in itself we desire 
health, physic only for health’s sake; and in this sort special 
reason oftentimes causeth the will by choice to prefer one thing 
before another, etc. Hooker, v. jis. p- 186. 

® ἀρχὴ is the beginning of a thing, αἴτιον the cause; the 
latter consequently is prior to the former. In a plant, the seed 
is the ἀρχὴ, the vegetative power the αἴτιον. 

® By the rule which states the principle to be superior to 
that which is not so. 

That is, supposing 1t to be an end; for, by a former rule, 


13. The 
same ob- 


ject may 


be made 
to appear ᾿ 
the great- 
er pee in 
different 
ways. 


It. 


16. 


11. 


48 ARISTOTLE'S [noon 4 


because the end, and not the principle, was above 
stated to be the greater Just like the saying of Le- 
odamus in impeaching Callistratus, “ that the man 
who devised the deed was worse than he who exe- 
euted it; for had he not devised it, the other could 
not have executed it:” and conversely, against Cha- , 
brias, he argued that “the agent was worse than the \ 
deviser ; for had there not been an agent, it would 
not have been realized in action, because people de- : 
vised plots on this very account, that others may 
execute them.” The more rare good is greater than 
the abundant!!; thus gold is better than steel, not- 
withstanding that it is less useful ; for the acquisition, 
by reason of its being more difficult, is greater. And 
in another view, the abundant is better than the rare, 
for the enjoyment of it exceeds that of the other; 
for the idea of often exceeds that of seldom; whence 
it is said, “‘ Water !? is the best of things :” and, in a 
word, the more difficult is superior to the easier ac- 
quisition, for it is more rare. In another point of 
view, the easier is above the more difficult ; for it has 
itself as we wish. That also is the greater good, the 
contrary of which is the greater evil ; as is also that 
of which the deprivation is the greater loss. Virtue, 
too, is greater than what is not positive virtue, and 
vice than what is not positive vice; for the former 
severally are ends, the latter are not ends. Causes, 
the productions of which are more becoming or more 
disgraceful, are themselves of greater importance. 


ends are superiur to means: thus, by one rule the superiority 
is assigned to ends, and by another to principles. So that, 
whichever side you take, you will have something to allege. 

1! On this principie Aristotle argues in his Poetics for the 
superiority of the fable above the other five constituents of the 
drama, inferring its superior worth from its superior difficulty 
and rarity. ‘‘ Que rara, cara.” 

12 Perrault, the French critic, misled possibly by this very 
passage, impotently ridiculed Pindar for the triteness of this 
idea: being ignorant that the poet alluded to the philosophy of 
Thales, who borrowed and taught the Fheenician doctrine, 
that water was the principle of all things. Vide Whartoa on 
Pope, vol. i. p. 132. 


CRar. νἹΣ. RHETORIC. 49 


Also of whatever things the excellencies and defici- 
encies are of greater importance, of them are also 
the productions of greater importance: since results 
stand to each other in the same ratio, as their several 
causes and principles; and, vice versa, causes and 
principles, in the ratio of their several results. Things, 
the excess of which is preferable or more becoming, 
as accuracy of sight is preferable to that of smelling, 
for sight is preferable to smelling; and the being 
greatly attached to friends is more becoming than to 
be greatly attached to money!*, so that attachment 
to friends is more becoming than fondness for money. 
And conversely, too, the excesses of better feelings are 
themselves better; and of the more becoming, them- 
selves, more becoming: as, too, are those things of 
which the desires are better or more becoming; for 
the greater desire is of the greater object: and, for 
the same reason, the desires which fasten on the more 
excellent and becoming objects, are themselves more 
excellent and becoming. Again, where the sciences 
are more grave or becoming, there the subject-matter 
also is more grave and becoming ; for, as is the science, 
so is its truth ; for each science takes cognisance of its 
peculiar truths: and analogous to this precedence of 
subjects is that also of the sciences, which recognise 
graver and more becoming subjects, above the rest ; 
for the same reasons. And that which men of practi- 
eal wisdom, or every person, or the generality, or the 
majority, or the best of men have, or would have 
pronounced to be a greater good; that of course 
must be such, either absolutely, or so far at least as 
they decided conformably to their prudence. This, 
too, is a test available in common to the other ques- 
tions about good; for their substance, quantity, and 
quality, have themselves so as science and prudence 
may direct ; on this subject however we have treated. 
For that has been defined to be good which every 


43 πὸ φιλέταιρον εἶναι καὶ τὸ φιλοχρήματον ; i.e. the being 
affected by these several feelings to such a degree, that they 
become a leading feature of the character; in which case, 
there is an ὑπερόχη, as it were, of the feelings, 


E 


19. 


20. 


23. 


25. 


27. 


50 ARISTOTLE’S - [BeoK By 


being, if fraught with prudence'*, would choose; 
wherefore it is evident, that what prudence pronounces 


. good in a high degree is a greater good, Also that 


which belongs to the better men, either absolutely, or 
in respect of their being better ; as courage is better 
than strength. Also what the better man would 
make the object of his choice, either absolutely or in 
respect of its being better; as, the suffering rather 
than the doing an injury, for this would he choose 
who is more just. And that which conduces more to 
pleasure rather that what conduces less; because 
every being pursues pleasure, and is desirous of en- 
joying it for its own sake; now it is in reference to 
this, that the good and the end have been defined: 
that is said to conduce more to pleasure, which is 
conducive to it with less alloy of pain, and for a 


. greater length of time. That which is more becom- 


ing rather than what is less so; for the becoming ei- 
ther is that which tends to please, or is desirable on 


. its own account. Whatever things people prefer 


being the causes of to themselves or to their friends, 
those are greater goods; but whatever they would 
least wish, are greater evils. Things whose duration 
is long, rather than those whose duration is short ; 
and those which are more secure, rather than those 
which are less so: for there is an advantage in their 
enjoyment ; of the former, in respect to time; of the 
latter, from their being at will: for the enjoyment, 
of what is secure is more in their power whenever 
they wish. And as are the terms arising from con- 
jugates and similar inflections, so are the qualities 
they denote; for example, if courageously be an idea. 
more noble and desirable than ¢emperately, courage 
will also be something more noble than temperance, 
and the idea of a man’s being courageous than of his 


. being temperate. What every one chooses is better 


than what some do not, as also is the choice of a ma~ 
jority better than that of a minority ; for as that was 
supposed a good which all desire, so that is propor- 


‘4 Whence it follows that prudence is competent to decide 
on the nature of good. 


euar. vit] RHETORIC. 51 


tionately greater which is more desired. That, too, 
which litigants or foes, judges, or arbitrators selected 
by judges, prefer, is better ; for in one case the deci- 
sion is equivalent to that of all mankind; and in the 
other, men of authority and information actually do 
pronounce. And sometimes good is greater in which 
all participate; for not to participate in it is a dis- 
grace: while at others, that is which none, or which 
few share with you; for it is more rare. Things 
more commended, because more becoming; and in 
the same way things are better to which belongs the 
greater honour, because honour is as a kind of esti- 
mate of worth. ‘Those things again are more hein- 
ous on which are imposed the greater punishments. 
Again, what is greater than things confessedly or ap- 
parently great, is itself superior in greatness. And 
the same objects, when separated into their several 
constituents, have an air of superior greatness, for 
the excess of a plurality of objects is conspicuous. 
Whence the poet says that Meleager’s wife persuaded 
him to rise up to the war by entering into detail :— 

“* She paints the horrors of a conquer’d town, 

The heroes slain, the palaces o’erthrown, 

The matrons ravish’d, the whole race enslaved *.” 

Iliad ix. 705. 

Again, the condensing and accumulating of circum- 
stances in the way Epicharmus used to do, is produc- 
tive of effect, and that on the same principle as their 
separation; viz. because the condensing of them 
évinces great excess, and for the further reason, that 
it appears a principle and a cause of great results. 
But as that is greater which is more rare and difficult, 
circumstances both of opportunity, and age, and 
place, and time, and strength, produce great effect. 


16. Another striking instance of the effect produced by a de- 
tail of circumstances may be found in the Septem contra 
Thebas of Aischylus, 302, ed. Bl.— 

οἰκτρὸν γὰρ πόλιν ὧδ᾽ 
ὠγυγίαν aide προϊάψιαι, κι τ. λ, 
and in Burke’s speech on the Nabob of Arcot’s Debts, Work. 
vol. ii. p. 480: see also Sheridan’s celebrated speech against 
Warren Hastings. 
E2 


30. 


32, 


34. 


35. 


£2 ARISTOTLE’S” [Roux 3, 


For an exploit beyond one’s strength, and age, and 
equals, if achieved, or if under such circumstances, 
at such a place or time, will gain importance whether 
it be good, or honourable, or just, or the opposite. 
Whence originated the inscription of the Olympie 
victor, “Formerly, indeed, with a rough basket '® on 
my shoulders, I used to carry fish from Argos to 
Tegea.” [Simonides.] And on this proceeds that 
encomium of Iphicrates [who was the son of a shoe- 
maker] on himself, when he said, “From what begin- 


. nings have these things been realized!” ‘That, too, 


which is innate is superior to what is adscititious, 
from its greater difficulty ; wherefore the poet says, 
“Of myself am I taught.” And the greatest part 
of what is great; as Pericles said in his funeral ora- 
tion 8, “ That the youth were swept from the city, 
just as the spring, were it to be withdrawn from the 
year.” That, too, is more precious which is available 
in the greater need; as in old age, or sickness, for 
instance. And of two means, that more immediately 
conducing to the end. That whose qualities have 
direct reference to one’s self, than those which are 
general, What is possible, rather than what is im- 
possible ; for the one attaches to one’s self, the other 
not. And things which are comprised in the end 19 
of Jife; for things conducing to the end partake in a 


. greater degree of the nature of ends. Things having 


reference to truth rather than to opinion :—as a de- 
finition of matter of opinion we may take what one, 
likely to escape observation, would not choose to do: 
and on this principle the receiving good would appear 
more desirable than the doing it; since one would 


16 ἄσιλλα is properly the yoke which was laid across the 

shoulder, from which the basket hung. 
17 Hom. Odyss. xxii. 347. 

18 Whether we suppose the ἐπιτάφιον to have been lost, or 
feel inclined to charge Aristotle with a lapsus memorie, so it 
is that the words are not attributed to Pericles in any work 
which has come down to us. ‘he same illustration was used 
by Gelon, tyrant of Syracuse, to the deputies from the states of 
Greece, who implored his assistance. Herodotus, vii. 162, 

19 Τέλος, the end or object of life: εὐδαιμονία scilicet. 


CHAP. vil.| RHETORIC. 53 


choose the first even should it be unobserved; with 
respect however to the doing good, that it seems no 
one about to be unnoticed would choose”. Those 
things, too, are better, of which men prefer the real 
possession to the appearance; for they have a nearer 
reference to truth: on which principle some argu 
that justice is a trifling good, because it is better for 
it to appear, than merely to exist?!: in respect to 


health, however, this is not the case. That which : 


is conducive to the greater number of uses; as what 
conduces to life, to happy life, to pleasure, and to 
noble conduct; wherefore health and wealth appear 
the highest goods, for these include every thing. 
That which is accompanied by less pain, and on 
which pleasure is attendant; for the good is more 
than merely single, since it is realised both in the 
positive pleasure, and in the absence of pain. And 
of two goods, that which, added to the same good, 
renders the sum greater. That, too, whose presence 
does not escape us, rather than that which does ??; 
for such approach reality ; whence the being really 
rich will seem a greater good than the appearance of 
being so. That, too, which is held dear, is a greater 
good :—whether, as in some eases, it be single; or, as 
in others, accompanied by more: on which account 
the punishment is not equal, in the case of putting 
out the eye of a person who has but one*, and of 


% A strikingly ostentatious principle of benevolence this : 
_ but it is one which an exact observance of human nature, even 
now that it has met the rebuke of Divine wisdom, will perhaps 
too fully justify Aristotle in laying down. 

71 According to the argument of the sophist Thrasymachus. 
Plato. Rep. lib. i. 

32 J have thus ventured to understand ἡμᾶς with λανθάνει ; 
for it appears the simplest way of getting over the difficulty 
which is caused by the illustration, which would appear better 
adapted to one of the former εἴδη than to this. 

23 Zaleucus established among the Locrians the .aw of re- 
taliation, “an eye for an eye.”” But on one occasion a man 
with a single eye being threatened with blindness by his enemy, 
procured a clause to be added, denouncing the loss of both 
eyes to him who deprived another of his only one. Demosth. 

ont. Timoer. p. 744. 


1. Rea- 
sons why 
the de- 
liberative 
orator 
must 
know go- 
yern- 
ments. 


54 ARISTOTLE’S [ook 1. 


one who has two eyes ; for there is, in the one case, 
a deprivation of the dearest object. 

The sources then from which, in exhortation and 
dissuasion, we must deduce our means of persuading, 
have nearly been enumerated. 


CHAP. VIII. 


On Forms of Government ;—what and how many they are ; 
—and on the end of each, 


THE means of greatest and most paramount import- 
ance with a view to being able to persuade and give 
advice in a becoming style, is the having made one’s 
self master of all the forms of government; and the 
having clearly distinguished their Several practices, 
and legal principles, and interests: for all men are 
persuaded by what is advantageous; but that which 


‘is preservative of the constitution, is absolute ex- 
. pediency'. And further, the dictum of the authori- 
‘tative power of the state, is itself authoritative. 


But the authorities are distinguished according to 
the forms of government under which they exist; for 


24 Dr. Parr, quoting the following passage from the Politics; 
do yao ἐστὶν ἃ μάλιστα ποιεῖ κήδεσθαι ποὺς ἀνθρώπους καὶ 
φιλεῖν, τό τε ἴδιον καὶ τὸ ἀγαπητὸν, remarks :—“ I suspect 
that ἀγαπητὸν here means more than carum, it may be ren- 
dered unicum, atque adeo carum. Aristotle, in lib. i. c. 7, 
Rhetor. says of the eye, destroyed in him who had only one, 
ἀγαπητὸν ἀφήρηται: see Hen. Stephens’s Thesaurus: but I> 
should observe, that in the margin of Aristotle, καὲ μόνον are 
added, perhaps, as explanatory. Upon the word ἀγαπητὸν in 
SS. for povoyévn, see Suidas and Hesychius in vy. and the 
notes.”? Spital. Sermon, notes, p. 39. 

1 T6 σώζον πολιτείαν appears with Aristotle to have been 
equivalent to abstract expediency ; and he therefore cannot be 
charged with a violation of his own rule against entering into 
particulars on any subject as peculiar to rhetoric, because 
every question of expediency will ultimately be viewed in 
reference to the constitution under which the parties live; at 
any rate the question is treated merely in a popular way— 
διηκρίβωται yap ἐν τοῖς πολετικοῖς. 


cua. vitt 7 - RHETORIC. 55 


as many forms of government as there are, so many 
are the authorities. 

Now there are four forms of government; demo- 
cracy, oligarchy, aristocracy, and monarchy. So that 
the authoritative and judicial functions will be merely 
one constituent of these, or the whole. Democracy 
is a form of government?, in which men apportion 
out the magistracies to themselves by lot. But an 
oligarchy, in which those only who, from the valua- 
tion of property, are entitled. Aristocracy, in which 
those bear magistracy who can conform to the con- 
stitutional plan of education. By such education I 
mean that established by the law: for those who ad- 
here to the principles of the law, are the men who, in 
an aristocracy, hold magistracies; and it must be 
that these should appear the best, whence this form 
of government took its name. Monarchy is that form 
in which, conformably to its name, one man is su- 
preme; and, of monarchies, those which are held by 
conformity to some limitations are kingdoms, but the 
unlimited are tyrannies?, 

Neither should the ends of the respective forms of 
government escape us; for men choose whatever con- 
duces to the end. The end then of a democracy, is 
liberty ; of an oligarchy, it is wealth ; of an aristocra- 
cy, the institutions relating to education and the prin- 
ciples of the law; the end of a tyranny, is the protec- 
tion of the tyrant’s person‘. It is evident then, if 


? In the Ethics (lib. viii. c. 10) democracy is not stated as 
a distinct form, but merely as a deviation (παρέκβασις) from 
timocracy, or πολιτεία ἡ ἀπὸ τιμημάτων. 

δ ολκβεσα βασιλείας μὲν τυραννίς" ἄμφω γὰρ μοναρχίαι. 

id. 

* We find a remarkable proof of this in the account given 
by Herodotus of the anxiety of the Persians for the personal 
safety of. Xerxes after the battle of Salamis ;—odé« οὕτω περὶ 
τῶν νεῶν ἀχθόμενοι, ὡς περὶ αὐτῷ Ξέρξῃ δειμαίνοντες, viii. 99. 
A remarkable expression occurs in Sophocles from which the 
same inference may be drawn; QCE&dipus, asking Creon why 
the murder of Laius had not been more fully investigated, 
thus expresses himself : 

Κακὸν δὲ ποῖον ἐμποδὼν, TYPANNIAOS 
“Ὅντω πεσούσης, εἶργε τοῦτ᾽ ἐξειδέναι ς-(Εαᾶϊρ. Tyran. 128. 


3. Four 
orms, 


4, Demo 
cracy. 


Oligax- 
chy. 
Aristo- 
cracy. 


Mon 
arcey. 


5. Ends 
of each 
govern- 
ment 


36 ARISTOTLE’S {800K I. 


“men fix their choice by reference to the end, that we 


6 The 
speaker 
must 
know 
these con- 
stitution- 
al forms 
in order 
to impress 
the hear- 
ers with a 
good-will 
towards 
him. 


must accurately distinguish the respective practices, 
laws, and interests of each form. 

But as means of persuasion originate not in argu- 
mentative oratory alone, but in such also as bears an 
impress of character ; for it is from the speaker’s ap- 
pearing a man of certain character that we trust him; 
that is to say, if he appears an honest man, or well 
affected®, or both: as this is the case, it will be ne- 
cessary for us to be masters of the character of each 
form of government; for the character which is pe- 
culiar to each, must needs be most available to per- 
suasion in addressing each. These points, however, 
will be ascertained by means of the same information ; 
for the character will manifestly be conformable to 
the choice; now the settled choice has reference to 
the end. 

Thus then have the objects which we ought to aim 
at in exhorting and dissuading, as probable or actu- 
ally in existence; the sources, too, out of which we 
must draw our means of proof on the subject of the 
expedient, and on the subject moreover of the cha- 
racter and legal principles belonging to the forms of 
government ; and the means by which, and the 
manner how, we shall have facilities on such ques- 
tions: all these points have been discussed, so far as 
was within the scope of the present occasion. For 
accuracy of detail on these points has been observed 
in the Politics. 


Where we may observe, that not simply is the person of the 
tyrant spoken of, but the very government itself, as though it 
had fallen with him. 

δ It is required (lib. ii. c. 1) that he be further possessed 
of φρόνησις. Let it be remembered that these qualities must 
be evinced by the speech, and not simply be taken for granted 
from a previous knowledge of the man. See Pearson om the 
Creed, Art. i. p. 5. | 


OHAP. 1x.? RHETORIC. 67 


CHAP. IX. 


On the subject of Virtue and Vice, the honourable and dis- 
graceful ;— Out of what considerations praise and blame 
are derwed. 


Let us next speak of virtue and vice, and of the 
honourable and disgraceful; because these are the 
objects of the orator who praises or blames'; and 
because it will happen that, in speaking of these 
subjects, we shall at the same time throw light on 
the means by which we may ourselves be conceived 
to be of a certain turn of character, which was stated 
to be the second means of effecting belief; since we 
shall be able, by the application of the same points, 
to render ourselves or others deserving belief on the 
score of moral excellence. But as there frequently 
are instances, as well in sober earnest as without it, 
of praising not men or gods only, but even inani- 
mate objects, and any animal whatever, as it may 
happen; we must here, in the same way as before, 
ascertain propositions on these subjects also. Let us 
then, so far as may serve for a specimen, discuss 
these subjects. 

That then is honourable, which, while it is an 
object of choice on its own account, is commendable 
also; or which, being good, is pleasant, simply be- 
cause it is good. But if the honourable be this, 
virtue must necessarily be honourable; for, being 


- good, it is commendable. And virtue, as it should 


seem, is a faculty tending to provide us with goods 
and preserve them to us; a faculty moreover capable 
of benefiting in many and important cases; of bene- 
fiting, in a word, every object in every respect?. 


1 As praise is the proper reward of virtue, so are blame and 
disgrace proper to vice ; in order that the world may be warned 
by the example of the one, and excited to emulate that of the 
other; ἀρετὰ γὰρ ἐπαινεομένη, δένδρον ws, ἀέξεται. 

3. Aristotle never omits an opportunity of inculcating this 
wholesome lesson, that the practice of virtue conduces to our 
true witerest. Its necessity in bodies politic, as being emi- 


1. The 


subjectsof _ 


Epideic- 
tic oratory 


discussed. 


3. τὸ καὸ 
Adv de- 
fined in 
two ways. 


4. Perfect 
virtue and 
its con- 
stituent 
parts are 
honour- 
able. 


il. 


58 ARISTOTLE'S τς tpoow 4. | 


The constituent parts of virtue are justice, courage, 
temperance, magnificence, magnanimity, liberality, 
placability, prudence, wisdom ; and it must needs be, 
that those virtues are the highest which are the 
most beneficial to others, if at least virtue be (as it 
was defined) a faculty capable of benefiting on this 
account, men honour in the greatest degree the just 
and brave ; for justice and courage are useful to 
them, the one in war, and the other in peace®. Next 
is liberality ; for the liberal are profuse, and do not 
wrangle with people about money, the object which 
the rest of the world hanker after more than any 


. thing. Now justice is the virtue by which each has 


his own, as the law prescribes: injustice, however, 
is that habit by which some take the property of 


. others in contravention to law. Courage, that by 


which men are ready to achieve honourable exploits 
in the midst of danger, conformably to the direction 
of and in subservience to law’: cowardice, however, 


. is its contrary. But temperance is a virtue by 


which men carry themselves so, in respect to the 
pleasures of the body, as the law directs ; intemper- 


. ance, however, is its contrary. But liberality tends 


to benefit in pecuniary matters; stinginess is its 
contrary. Magnanimity is that virtue which is apt 
to confer important benefits; narrowness of soul 


nently τὸ σώζον τὴν πολιτείαν, is thus stated in another of his 
works: Ἔστι δ᾽ οὔθεν ἐν τοῖς πολιτικοῖς δυνατὸν πρᾶξαι ἄνευ 
τοῦ ποῖον τίνα εἶναι, λέγω δὲ οἷον σπουδαῖον. Td δὲ σπουδαῖον 
εἶναι, ἐστὶ τὸ τὰς ἀρετὰς ἔχειν. Magn. Mor. lib. i. ο. 1. 

3 In the Ethics he places liberality first :;---φιλοῦνται σχεδὸν 
μάλιστα οἱ ἐλευθέριοι τῶν ἀπ᾽ ἀρετῆς ὠφέλιμοι γὰρ τοῦτο δὲ 
ἐν τῇ δόσει. Eth. Nich. iv. 1. Courage may be ranked first, 
because on occasions we may be disqualified from the exercise 
of other virtues if this be wanting. 

4 Consistently with the doctrine held in the Ethics, he does 
not admit every sort of daring to the praise of courage. For 
of some persons, whose daring is at first sight not incunsider- 
able, it is true, as Juvenal remarks— 

Justa pericli 
Si ratio est et honesta, timent pavidoque geMantur 
Pectore, nec tremulis possunt insistere plantis : 
Fortem animum prestant rebus, quas turpiter audent. 
Sat. vi. 94. 


CHAP. 12.7 RHETORIC. 59 


is its opposite. Magnificence is the virtue which 
produces grandeur in expenditures :—again, narrow- 
ness of scul and meanness are opposed. Prudence 
however is an intellectual virtue, by conforming to 
which men have the faculty of actually determining 
on the subjects of the good and evil®, which has 
veen mentioned as entering into happiness. 
- Enough has been said on the subject of virtue and 
vice in general, and of their constituent parts, to suit 
the present’ occasion: respecting the other points, 
there is no difficulty in discerning what they are ; for 
it is plainly necessary both that the productives of 
virtue should be honourable (because they have re- 
ference to virtue), and also the fruits of virtue ; of 
which kind are both the indications and actions of 
virtue; but as the indications and all actions or suf- 
ferings of a good man are honourable, it will neces- 
sarily follow that all exploits of courage whatever, 
and all indications of courage, that all conduct, in 
ἃ word, which has been marked with courage is 
honourable; and so of things just and conforming 
to justice, so far at least as actions are concerned : 
(but as relates to sufferings this is not the case 3 
for in this single instance of all the virtues, does 
it occur that what is conformable to justice is not 
invariably honourable, but in the case of suffering 
punishment, that which is justly suffered is in a 


5 Alluding to the division made in the Ethics of virtues into 
those of the ἐπιθυμήτεκον and λόγον ἔχον μέρος of the soul ; the 
former whereof is the subject of the moral, the latter of the in- 
tellectwal virtues. Vid. Eth. i. 13. 

ὃ Ἢ μὲν φρόνησις περὶ Ta ποιητέα ὅρους αὐτοῖς τιθεῖσα. 
Philo, p. 35, Allegor. ed. Par. 

7 Those who have not read the Ethics will be surprised to 
hear that the virtues which he here cespatches in one section, 
should there occupy a book and a half. This popular discus- 
sion of them is, as far as it goes, conformable to the more phi- 
losophical view taken in the other treatise, except in respect 
to the criterion which is assigned of the comparative excellence 
‘of each virtue, viz. μέγιστας εἶναι ἀρετᾶς Tas τοῖς ἄλλοις χρη- 
σιμώτατοις ; and that stated § 23—ai ἀπολαύστικαι ἄλλοὶς 
“μᾶλλον, κι τ. λ. Such a test, however inadequate to the views 
of the philosopher, is good enough for the orator, since it is 
on¢ in which nine-tenths of the world will acquiesce. 


12. 


13. 


14 


Ta καλὰ 
enumer- 
ated. 


18 


16. 


17. Every 
thing free 
from the 


selfish 


principle 
is honour- 


able. 


18. 


19. 
20. 


60 ARISTOTLE’S . [Book & 


higher degree disgraceful than what is unjustly§;) 
and so likewise in respect to the other virtues. 
Whatever actions have national distinctions as their 
reward are honourable, or whatever have such dis- 
tinctions rather than money. Whatever things, among 
those which are objects of choice, one does, not for 
his own sake. And whatever things which ab- 
stractedly viewed are good, one has achieved for his 
country’s sake, overlooking his own interest. Things 
good in their own nature ; things which are good, 
but not to one’s self ; every thing of that kind being 
chosen on its own account. Whatever things admit 
of being realized to one when dead, rather than in 
his life-time ; for that which appertains to one in his 
life, rather carries the idea of its being for one’s self. 
Whatever actions are for the sake of others ; for they 
are not so much for one’s own sake. And as many 
instances of successful management as occur where 
others are concerned, and where one’s self is not ; and 
this particularly respecting benefactors, for it ‘then 
is just. Benefits, too, are honourable ; for they at- 
tach not to one’s self. And the contraries of all 
cases in which men feel a delicacy ; for men are sens- 
ible of delicacy both in mentioning, or doing, or in- 
tending any thing disgraceful; just as Sappho has 
expressed in verse on the occasion of Alczus’ saying, 
“1 would say something, but delicacy restrains me.” 
“If thou entertainedst a desire of speaking things 
either good or honourable, and were not thy tongue 
teeming with the utterance of some evil; shame had 
not suffused thine eyes, but thou wouldest havc 
spoken what was fit.” Objects for which men are , 
keenly anxious without being affected by fear, are : 
honourable ; for men are thus affected respecting © 


8 The passage from πάθη to ἀδίκως must be considered as a - 
note ; and the words κατὰ τὰς ἄλλας---ὡσαύτως, considered as 
the conclusion of the sentence preceding it. 

9 Victorius cites an anecdote of Themistocles, preserved by 
Cicero, as illustrative of this remark. ‘‘ Noctu ambulabat in 
publico Themistocles, quod somnum capere non posset : quis 
rentibusque respondebat, Miitiadis tropeis se e somno excitart.”* 
Tusc. iv. 19. It will be needless to remark, that ‘ noble 


CHAP. Ix.]} RHETORIC, 61 


goods which tend to reputation. Those virtues and 22. 
their fruits are honourable in a higher degree, which 
belong to subjects naturally more excellent’; as, for 
example, those of a man are higher than those of a 
woman. And those which are of a nature to be en- 23. 
joyed by others, rather than by ourselves; the prin- 
ciple on which the just and justice are honourable. 

Thus, the taking vengeance on a foe rather than 24. Re- 
the being reconciled; both because to compensate is ;tue" #8 
just, and what is just is honourable!!; and further, able. 
because it belongs to the courageous man never to be 
worsted, Both victory and national distinction are 25. 
of the number of things honourable; for they are 
desirable, though unattended by lucre, and evince 
more than ordinary virtue; and the memorials of 
one’s name; and what partakes of these respective 
characters more decidedly, is also more decidedly 
honourable. Again, things which do not follow one 
in his life; and whatever honour is attendant on; 
that which presents features of vastness; that, too, 
is honourable in a higher degree which belongs to 
one’s self alone, for it is longer remembered. And 26, 
possessions unattended by profit, for they are more 
becoming a gentleman!?; and whatever is peculiarly 
esteemed among each people, is honourable. Every Badges 
badge of what is held commendable in each nation; are hon- 
at Lacedemon', for instanee, it is honourable to wear το δ’ 


minds” alone can be sensible of this high excitement—¢ywvia. 
And Thucydides on hearing Herodotus read his History. 

10 The greatness and dignity of all manner of actions is 
measured by the worthiness of the subject from which they 
eta and of the object whereabout they are conversant. 

ooker, Eccles. Pol. ν, § 6, p. 23. 

Ἢ This is a striking instance of that species of sophistry by 
which our unenlightened reason reconciles us to the gratifica- 
tion of our worst passions; and we should learn from it to 
slory in that heavenly wisdom which has taught us “ to de 
rood to those who hate us, to pray for those who despitefully 
use us and persecute us.” 

12 ᾿Ελευθέρια, τὰ μὴ πρὸς ἀπόλαυσιν. See cap. v. § 7. 

% This idea appears, in ancient times, to have been very 
prevalent; a singular instance of its influence is mentioned in 
Stobeeus: “ Παρ᾽ ᾿Ινδοῖς ἐάν τις ἀποστερηθῇ δανείου, ἢ παρα» 
καταθήκης, οὐκ ἔστι Koie:s’ ἀλλ᾽ αὐτὸν αἰτιᾶται ὁ πιστεύσωφ 


28. We 
must re- 
gard ap- 
parent 
good 
qualities 
as real. 


29. 


62 AKLSTOTLE’S | BUoe 4 


long hair!4, because it is the badge of a free man, 
since it is not easy for a man with long hair to do 


- any servile work. And the not exercising any vulgar 


craft; for it belongs to a gentleman not to live in 
dependence on another’. And we must take for 
granted that qualities, akin to real ones, are actually 
identified with them, and this with a view as well to 
praise as to blame; for instance, taking the cautious 
man to be a cold-hearted, designing fellow ; or a sim- — 
pleton to be a good kind of man; and the man who 
is dead to feeling, to be of a mild disposition: and 
in a word, we must make a selection, invariably on 
the most favourable side, out of the qualities con- 
comitant on the character of each; making out the 
passionate and furious to be men void of all duplicity ; 
and the self-willed to be magnificent and dignified : 


‘ and such as are in excess, to be in the virtuous 


mean; the rash, for instance, to be brave; the pro- 
fuse, liberal !®; for it will both seem to be the case 


ὁ δὲ τεχνίτου πηρώσας χεῖρα ἢ ὀφθαλμὸν θανάτῳ ζημιοῦται, 
τὸν δὲ μέγιστα ἀδικήσαντα, ὁ βασιλεὺς κελεύει κείρασθαι, ὡς 
ἐσχάτης οὔσης ταύτης ἀτιμίας. Parr, pit. Serm. p. 146. 

14 The Lacedemonians used to wear their hair long, in com- 
memoration of the victory obtained by Othryades and his two 
comrades over the three Argive champions, for the land at 
Thyrea. Herodot. i. 82. Or perhaps, being inconvenient to 
those engaged in servile occupations, length of hair might be 
considered as a badge of the more noble pursuits of the wearer. 
Collins has a fine allusion to this practice in the opening of his 
Ode to Liberty :— 

Who shall awake the Spartan fife, 
And call in solemn sounds to life 
The youths, whose locks divinely spreading, 
Like vernal hyacinths in sullen hue, — 
At once the breath of fear and virtue shedding, 
Applauding Freedom loved of old to view ? 


Among the Franks, the privilege of wearing the hair long was 
peculiar to the princes and their descendants, the rest of the 
nation being obliged tv shave the hinder part of the head. 
Gibbon’s Decline and Fall, c. xxxv. note 17, and Agathias 
quoted in Heraldic Anomalies, vol. i. p. 168. 

45 Aristotle, in his Ethics, makes this remark of the μεγα- 
λόψυχος, observing, πρὸς ἄλλον μὴ δύνασθαι ζῇν, ἀλλ᾽ ἢ πρὸς 
φίλον" δουλικὸν γάρ. iv. 3. ᾿ 

16 Horace recommends an innocent use of this sort of 905. 
phistry among friends, as a preservative of friendship— 


Ὄσττ » 


Liu mS Ὗ ; 


CHAP. IXx.]} RHETORIC. 63 


to the nine-tenths of the world, and will aiford room 
for deducing a piece of false reasoning out of the 
motives of the agent; for if one rush into danger 
where there is no necessity, much more should it 
seem that he will, where it is honourable !"; and if 
a man be lavish on all who fall in his way, surely he 
will also be so on his friends; for to benefit all is an 
excess of virtue. We ought to consider also before 
whom our panegyric is pronounced ; for, as Socrates 
used to remark, “ It is no difficult thing to panegyrise 
Athenians in the presence of Athenians.” We must 
also assert that what is valued by each auditory, is 
to be essentially valuable ; what, for instance, either 
Scythians or Lacedzmonians or philosophers value : 
and, in short, to refer to the class of things really 
honourable, whatever is held in esteem; since by 
virtue of their being so esteemed, they appear to 
approximate closely that class. Again, whatever is 
natural under such circumstances, for instance, if 
one’s actions be worthy of his ancestors or his own 
former achievements ; since the additional acquisition 
of glory tends to happiness, and is honourable. Like- 
wise every action contrary to what is natural to one, 
so it be on one side of what is better and honourable ; 
as when one in good fortune has been moderate, or 
magnanimous in adversity ; or has become better and 
easier to be won over in proportion as he became 
greater. Of this nature was the appeal of Iphicrates, 
* From what beginnings to what have I attained!” 
And that of the Olympic conqueror, “ Formerly 
bearing on my shoulders a rough basket,” etc. And 
that of the epitaph by Simonides, “‘ Though daughter, 
wife, and sister of tyrants'’,” etc. 


Vellem in amicitia sic erraremus, et isti 
Errori virtus nomen posuisset honestum, etc. 


Ea * * ΕἸ * * 
Opinor 
Hec res et jungit, junctos et servat amicos. 
Sar. i. 3, 41. 


-" That is, under the direction of the law, ὡς ὁ νόμος κελεύει, 
καὶ ὑπηρετικὸς τῷ νόμῳ. § 7. 

“18 The epitaph was on Archedice, daughter of Hippias, and 
wife of Oantides, tyrant of Lampsacis. See Thucyd. vi. 59. 


30. We 
must see 
in whose 
presence , 
our coms 
menda- 
tion is 
held. 


32. We 
must 
show that 
the person 

raised 

as acted 
on prin- 
ciple. 


33. 
ἔπαινος 


defined. 


2 


35. Com- 

mon p.int 
of epideic- 
tic and de- 
liberative 

oratory. 


64 ARISTOTLE’S | Boox & 


But as commendation arises out of moral conduct, 
and it is a peculiar characteristic of the good man to 
act on principle 3, we must endeavour to put the ob- 
ject οὐ our commendation in the light of one who has 
acted on principle. Now his appearing to have acted 
so in many instances will be serviceable with a view 
to this; wherefore coincidences and fortuitous oc- : 
currences must be assumed as done on principle: and ᾿ 
should many and like circumstances be alleged, it will 
appear to be a sign of virtue and principle. Now 
commendation is language exhibiting greatness in the 
case of virtue; we should therefore give this further 
proof of the actions of him we commend, that they 
are of this character. Encomium”®, however, is of ac- 
tions; (and circumstances concur to the enforcing 
persuasion, as excellence of birth and education ; for: 
it is probable that a person so brought up, will be of 
such a character;) and hence we pass encomia on 
those who have acted. And a man’s actions are 
signs of his habit; since we commend even the man 
who has not acted, if we believe him to be of such a 
character. But felicitation (μακαρισμὸς), and con- 
gratulation (εὐδαιμονισμὸς), are Synonymous the one 
to the other; but are not so to the other two: but 
felicitation comprehends them, just as happiness com- 
prehends virtue. 

Demonstrative and deliberative oratory have one 
point in common; for whatever you would suggest to 
a man in giving advice, that, by a change of the dic- 
tion, becomes an encomium?!, When, therefore, we 


19 See Ethics, lib, ii. c. 4. Δικαίως ἢ σωφρόνως πράττεται 
ἐὰν ὁ πράττων πῶς ἔχων πράττῃ" πρῶτον μὲν ἐὰν εἰδὼς. ἔπειτ᾽ 
ἐὰν προαιρούμενος, καὶ προαιρούμενος δι᾽ αὐτὰ, τὸ δὲ τρίτον καὶ 
ἐὰν βεβαίως καὶ ἀμετακινήτως ἔχων πράττῃ" and, in fact, unless 
the καλὰ be done under some restriction of principle, mode, 
and propriety, they lose their character, as Zonaras has, on 
another occasion, observed: Ὅτι οὐ καλὸν ὅταν μὴ καλῶς γί- 
νηται: in Can. Apost. 66, quoted in Hooker, at the end of booki. 

20 On the subject of ἐγκώμιον and ἔπαινος, see Eth. Nich. i. 
12, where he is inquiring whether commendation or praise be 
more appropriate to happiness :—0o μὲν graves τῆς ἀρετῆς 
“πρακτικοὶ yao τῶν καλῶν ἀπὸ ταύτης" Ta δὲ ἐγκώμια τῶν Ep 
γων, ὁμοίως καὶ τῶν σωματικῶν, καὶ τῶν ψυχικῶν. - 

91: Laudes nonnulle ἃ voluntate bona cum reverentia Come 


΄ 


CMAP. IX.] RHETORIC. 60 


know what a man ought to do, and what kind of per- 
son he should be, it is necessary, if we would state 
this in the form of advice, to transpose and change 
the sentiment in its diction: for instance, suppose we 
are aware that we are not to think highly of goods 
obtained by chance, but of those obtained by our own 
means. ‘Thus expressed the sentiment has the force 
of a suggestion; but thus, of cemmendation, “think- 
ing highly, not of goods which were his by chance, 
but those obtained by his own means.” So that, 
when you wish to commend, see what you would 
suggest in advising; and when to advise, see what 
you would commend. But the diction will of neces- 
sity be reversed, when there has been submitted to 
change an idea which in one form is prohibitive, in 
another is not prehibitive. 

We must avail ourselves also of amplification in 
many cases: thus, if a man has done a thing alone, 
or first, or with few to share it, or even if it bea 
thing which he has done more than any other; these 
all are circumstances of honour. The topic also 
which is deducible from times and seasons; these are 
circumstances contrary to what is natural. Also if 
a man has oftefh succeeded in the same thing ; for this 
is a feature of greatness, and originates not in chance, 
but will appear to arise through his own means. 
Also if orations commendatory and exhorting to 
emulation have been founded and got up on his ac- 
count; if also he be one on whom an encomium was 
first passed, as it was on Hippolochus; and the hav- 
ing a statue set up in the forum first occurred to 
Harmodius and Aristogiton: and in the same way 
we use amplification with opposite views ; and should 
you not abound in topics bearing on your subject 
himself, you should set him in comparison with 
others ; which Isocrates used to do from his familiar- 
ity with judicial pleading. You should compare the 


juncta proficiscuntur, que sane laudum formula Principibus et 
Viris quibuscungue dignioribus debetur: Laudando precipere : 
cum scilicet apud illos predicando quales sint, humiliter mo 
neas quales esse debeant. Bacon’s Essays, De Laude. 

ὴ Σ 


86. 


38. Am- 
plification 
to be 
used ; 


and com- 


66 ARISTOTLE’S | Boom κ᾿ 


parison of person of whom you speak, with men of character; 
character. for it is a feature of amplification, and honourable, 
if he be better than the good. 

39. Am- | Amplification falls in easily with demonstrative 
plification oratory; for its essence is the being above medi- 
siete ocrity. On which account we should make a com- 
oratory, parison with the generality of men, if we cannot 
with men of character; since the being above the 

40, average seems to indicate virtue. In a word, of all 

the formule common to each branch of rhetoric, am-' 
plification best suits demonstrative ; for the orator 

takes the actions for granted, and it thus remains 

Example only to invest them with greatness and beauty. Ex- 
ruts de- ample”, however, suits deliberative ; because we 
iberative, ᾿ . 
enthy- there decide, by arguing of the future from what has 
mem ju- gone before. Enthymem, however, suits judicial ; 
eon °ra for by reason of its not being clear, the past most 
especially leaves room for assignment of reasons and’ 
demonstration. | 

41. Nearly all the sources out of which praise and: 
blame are deduced, and on what sort of things we' 

ought to have an eye in praising and blaming, the’ 

means too by which encomia and reproaches are pro- 

duced, are these: for being possessed of these points, 


22 For the general principles upon which Examp es influ-' 
ence us, and their peculiar adaptation to deliberative cases, 
see book ii. chap. 20. Meanwhile let us anticipate our author’s . 
discussion of the subject, and quote a few words of a modern 
writer to show how completely this vehicle of proof is adapted ' 
to the purpose of the orator, whose demonstrations should al- 
ways be as little laboured as possible.—‘‘ Our lives in thig 
world are partly guided in rules, and partly directed by Cia, 
amples. To conclude out of general rules and axioms by dis- 
course of wit our duties in every particular action, is both’ 
troublesome, and many times so full of difficulty, that it maketh ἡ 
deliberations hard and tedious to the wisest men. Whereupon 
we naturally all incline to observe examples, to mark what 
others have done before us, and, in favour of our own ease, 
rather to follow them, than to enter into a new consultation, if 
in regard of their virtue and wisdom we may but probably 
think they have waded without error. So that the willingness . 
of men to be led by example of others, both discovereth and 
helpeth the imbecility of our judgment.” Hooker, Ecc. Pol. ' 
v. § 65, p. 307. 


CHAP. %.f ‘RHETORIC. 81 
their contraries are plain ; for blame is deduced from 


the opposite sources. 


CHAP. X. 


The number and nature of the Sources out of which the 
Orator must construct his reasonings in Accusation and 
Defence, 


Ir will be for me next to speak of the number: and 
nature of the sources out of which the orator must 
construct his reasonings, touching accusation and de- 
fence. Now we must ascertain three points ; one, 
what and how many are the objects for the sake of 
which men act unjustly ; the second, how themselves 
are disposed ; and the third, towards persons of what 
character and of what disposition they do so act. 

_ Let us then, after defining the acting unjustly, 
speak in order of the rest. Let the acting unjustly 
be defined to be, the voluntary! commission of hurt 
in contravention of law. Now law is either general 
or peculiar. The peculiar law I call that, by whose 
written enactments men direct their polity: the 


general, whatever unwritten rules appear to be recog- ‘ 


nised among all men. Men are voluntary agents in 
whatever they do wittingly, and without compulsion. 
Men, therefore, do not every thing on fixed princi- 
ple, which they do wittingly: but whatever they do 
on fixed principle, that they do wittingly ; because 
no one is ignorant of that which he chooses on princi- 
ple. Now, the principles by whose motion men de- 

1 Rewards and punishments do always presuppose some- 
thing willingly done well or ill; without which respect, though 
we may sometimes receive good or harm, yet then the one is 
only a benefit and not a reward, the other simply a hurt and 
hot a punishment. From the sundry dispositions of man’s 
will, which is the root of all his actions, there groweth variety 
tn the sequel of rewards and punishments, which are by these 
and the like rules measured: Take away the will, and all acts 


are equal: That which we do not, and would do, is commonly 


accepted as done. Hooker, i. as 9, p. 299. 


1, Judi- 
cial ora- 
tory con- 
sidered in 
three 
ways. 

2. 1. The 
motives. 
ii. The 
disposi- 
tion of the 
agents, 
in. The- 
persons 
injured. 
3. In- 
justice dee 
fined. 
Division - 


ii, Par 
ticular, 


4. Twa 


68 ARISTOTLE’S -[Boox 2. 


eauses of liberately choose to hurt and do evil in contravention 
τ Νς of law, are depravity and moral weakness”; for if 
pravity. @ny are depraved either in one or more respects, it is 
ii. Incon- in reference to that point, on which they are so de- 
unence. _ praved, that they are guilty of injustice. The illi- 
beral man, for instance, on the subject of money ; 
the intemperate, touching the pleasure of the body ; 
and the effeminate, respecting objects of ease ; and 
the coward, respecting danger ; (for it is by reason 
of fear that men abandon their comrades in. danger ;) 
the ambitious man, on the score of honour; the hasty 
man, by reason of anger ; the man eager to excel, on 
account of victory; the vindictive, for the sake of 
revenge; a silly man, owing to his being mistaken 
on points of right and wrong ; a man of effrontery, 
from his contempt of character. And in other cha- 
racters in the same way each [goes wrong | respect- 
5. ing his own particular weakness. But my meaning 
on these matters will be evident from what has been 
already said on the subject of the virtues, and from 
what hereafter will be stated on the subject of the 
passions. It merely remains for me to state on what 
account, how effected, and toward -whom, men do 

commit injustice. 
6. The First, then, let us distinctly enumerate the objects, 
motives of which desiring, or which avoiding, we set about in- 
aay justice?: because it evidently should be considered 
from by the plaintiff how many, and what sort of those 
things, from a desire of which men wrong their 
neighbours, have an existence on the side of his ad- 
versary ; and by the defendant again, what, and 


3 Cf. James, chap. i. 15. 

3 How complete an insight into the nature of man does this 
disquisition display ; and how admirable a key is here afforded 
to all the operations of the human heart! This branch of 
knowledge has always been insisted on as essential to those 
employed in judicial investigations.—Thus, Bolingbroke, 
speaking of the education of lawyers, says, ‘‘ They must pry 
into the secret recesses of the human heart, and become well 
acquainted with the whole moral world, that they may discover 
the abstract reasou of all laws,” etc. Stud. of Hist. p. 353: 
edit 4to. 


‘CHAP. σ RHETORIC. 69 


what number of these things do not so exist. Now 7. the mo- 
ail men do all things either of themselves, or not of μελήρ: ΘΕ ΜΙΣ 
themselves. ‘The things which they do not of them- action, 
selves, they do either by chance, or from necessity ; 

‘and the things done by necessity, they do either by 
compulsion, or by nature. So that all things what- 

soever which men do not of themselves, they do either 

by chance, or from compulsion, or by nature. Again, 

the things which they do of themselves, and of which 

they are themselves the causes, some they do through 

᾿ custom, and others through natural desire ; and this 

partly through this desire influenced by reason, and 

in part through it devoid of reason. Now the act of 8. 
wishing is desire accompanied by reason, fixing on 

some good as its object; because no one wishes for 

any thing other than what he conceives to be a good. 

The desires devoid of reason, are anger and appetite. 

So that all things whatever which men do, they ne- These are 
cessarily do from seven causes ; by chance, compul- csr 
sion, nature, custom, will, anger, or appetite. But j Chance 
to carry on distinctions in reference to age, or habits, ii. Com- 
or whatever else enacts itself in conduct, were su- a 
perfluous. For, granting that it happens to young ture. 
men to be passionate, it is not by motion of their ἣν Cus- 
youth that they act thus, but by motion of anger and + "Ww; 
appetite: neither is it by motion either of wealth or vi. Anger 
_ poverty, simply, but (in the case of the poor) it is on 1 Appe 
account of their neediness that it happens that they 9.~ 
cherish an appetite for wealth ; and (in the case of 
the rich) on aceount of their having the means, that 
they risk an appetite for unnecessary pleasure ; and 
these persons will act neither by motion of their 
wealth nor of their poverty, but by motion of appe- 
tite. And in exactly the same way, the just and un- 
just, and all such as are said to act econformably to 
habits, will in reality act, under all cireumstances, by 
motion of these principles; for they on the impulse 
either of reason or of passion; but some from good 
manners and passions, others from the contrary. 
Still, however, it happens that on habits of this par- 10 
ticular charactes: principles of action the same in 


ll. 


12. 
i, Chance. 


13. 


ii. Na- 
ture. 


14, 


iii, Com- 
pulsion. 


70 AAISTOTLE’S | BOOK 1. 


character are consequent ; and on those of that kind, 
principles also of that kind. For on the temperate 
man perhaps forthwith, by motion of his temper- 
ance, are attendant good opinions and appetites re- 
specting pleasures ; but on the intemperate, the con- 
trary on these same subjects. For which reason we 
must wave distinctions of such a kind; but we must 
consider, on what conditions’, what principles of 
conduct are wont to follow: for it is not ordained, 
(in the nature of things,) that, if a man be white or 
black, or tall or short, principles of this or that kind 
should be attendant on him; but if he be young or 
old, just or unjust, here some difference begins ; and 
so, in a word, in the case of all contingent circum- 
stances whatever, which produce a difference in the 
tempers of men, for instance, a man’s seeming to 
himself to be rich or poor, fortunate or unfortunate ; 
in all these cases there will be some, essential differ- 
ence. Of this, however, we will speak hereafter ; let 
us now treat first of the remaining points. Things 
proceed from chance which are of such kind that 
their cause is not definite *, and are produced in the ab- 
sence of any final motive, and that neither invariably, 
nor usually, nor in any prescribed order. My mean- 
ing on these subjects will be plain from the definition 
of chance. All those things exist naturally whose 
cause is internal and ordinate ; for they turn out, either 
invariably or generally, in the same way ; since there 
is no need of an accurate inquiry on results contrary to 
nature, whether they be produced conformably to a 
certain nature, or any other cause. It would appear, 
tco, that chance is the cause of such results. All 


4 He here first informs us that he shall not make his excln- 
sion sv rigid as he had above stated, but will admit youth and 
age, etc. to-a particular consideration, as holding an important 
influence over character, though that influence ought philo- 
sophically to be referred to one of the seven above-mentioned 
principles ; while every thing else which people choose to fix 
upon as a principle of conduct will, on examination, prove to 
be merely secondary, and to avt mediately through one or other 
of the seven. 

* Vid. chap. v. ὁ 1.) τ 


cwar. x, ~ RHETORIC. 71 


things originate in compuision, which are produced 
through the instrumentality of the agents themselves, 


contrary to their inclination and reason. In habét 15 


originates every thing which men do because they 
have often done it before. From will proceed what- 
ever of the forementioned goods appear to be useful, 
either as an end or as conducing to the end, when it 
is by reason of such their usefulness that they are real- 
ized in action: for even the intemperate do some things 
which are useful; but not on account of their useful- 
ness, but on account of pleasure. Through the medium 
of anger and excited feeling arise acts of vengeance. 
Now, between revenge and punishment there is a dif- 
ference ; for punishment is for the sake of the sufferer, 
but revenge for that of the person inflicting it, in or- 
der that he may be satiated®. On what subjects this 
excitement of feeling exists, will therefore be plain in 
my treatise of the passions. But all such things as ap- 
‘pear pleasant are produced in action on the impulse 
of appetite. But that which is familiar and has be- 
come habitual, is of the number of things pleasant ; 
for many things there are, even among such as are 
not pleasant xaturally, which, when men have been 
habituated to, they do with pleasure. So that, to 
speak in one word comprehending the whole, every 
thing whatsoever which men do of their own proper 
motion, either is good, or apparently good ; pleasant, 
or apparently pleasant. But as they act voluntarily 
in whatever they do of their own motion, and invo- 
luntarily in whatever they do not of their own motion ; 
all things whatsoever in respect to which they act 
voluntarily, will be either good or apparently good ; 
pleasant or apparently pleasant. For I also set down 
the getting quit either of evils or apparent evils, and 
the getting a less evil in exchange for a greater, in 
the class of goods; because they are in a certain way 
desirable things. And, among things pleasant, I 
likewise set down the getting quit of things bringing 
pain, or appearing to do so; or the getting things 


® Revenge is a kind of wild justice. Bacon’s Essays. 


iv. Habit 


16. 
νυν. Will, 


37. 
vi, Anger, 


18. 
vii. Appe- 
tite. 


These 
motives 
are briefly 
compre- ἡ 
hended 
in one 
word, 
pleasure, 


9, What 
abjects 
are plea- 
sant, 
therefore, 
must be 
discussed. 


t. Imme- 
diate mo- 
tives of 
injustice 
consider- 
ed. Defi- 
nition of 
pleasure. 
2. Pain is 
ξξτασις. 


3 A re- 
version to 
nature is 


pleasant. 


72 ARISTOTLE’S } BOOK Σ᾿ 


Yess so, in exchange for such as are so in greater de- . 
ree, 

ὶ We have therefore to ascertain the number of things 
pleasant’ and of what kinds they are. Now on the 
subject of what is useful, something has been already 
said in my treating of deliberative rhetoric ; but on 
the subject of what is pleasant let us treat, beginning 
at this point. As to the definitions, you must deem 
them to be adequate [to my purpose } if they be found, 
on each subject, exempt from obscurity, though not 
accurately precise. 


CHAP. XI. 
What things are pleasant. 


Let it be laid down by us, that pleasure is a certain 
motion of the soul, and a settlement of it, at once 
rapid and perceptible, into its own proper nature; 
and that pain is the contrary. If then pleasure be a 
thing of this nature, it is plain that whatever is pro- 
ductive of the disposition I have described, is plea- 
sant ; while every thing of a nature to destroy it, or 
produce a disposition the opposite to it, is painful. 
Generally speaking, therefore, it is necessary, both 
that the being in progress toward a state conform- 
able to nature, should be pleasant ; and that, in the 
highest degree, when those feelings, whose original 
is conformable to it, shall have recovered that their 
nature ; and habits, because that which is habitual 
becomes by that time natural, as it were; for, in a 
certain way, custom 15. ike nature, because the idea 
of frequency is proximate to that of always; now na- 
ture belongs to the idea of ahvays, custom to that of 


7 In all judicial questions a knowledge of the constituents of 
pleasure will be of essential service ; for they all suppose some 
wrong done, and there is no man doth a wrong for the wrong’ 
sake, but thereby to purchase himself pr ~ or pleasure, oF 
Aonour, or the like. Bacon‘s Essays. 


CHAP. XI.} RHETORIC 73 


often. What is not compulsory, also, is pleasant ; for 
compulsion is contrary to nature. Wherefore acts of 
necessity are painful ; and it has been truly remark- 
ed, “ Every act of necessity is in its nature painful.” 
It must be also that a state of sedulous attention, 
anxiety, the having the mind on the stretch, are 
painful, for they all are acts of necessity, and con- 
strained, unless they have become habitual ; but it is 
custom which, under such circumstances, renders 
them pleasant. The contraries of these must also be 
pleasant ; wherefore, relaxation of mind, leisure, 
listlessness, amusements, and intervals of rest, rank 
in the class of things pleasant ; for none of these has 
any thing to do with necessity. Every thing of 
which there is an innate appetite, is pleasant; for 
appetite is a desire of what is pleasant. Now, of ap- 
petites, some are irrational, others attended by reason. 
I call all those irrational, which men desire, not from 
any conception which they form: of this kind are all 
which are said to exist naturally, as those of the 
body ; thirst or hunger, for instance, in the case of 
sustenance ; and the appetite of sustenance in every 
kind. And the appetites connected with objects of 
taste, and of lust, and, in fact, objects of touch gener- 
ally ; the appetite of fragrant odours, too, as connect- 
ed with smelling, and hearing, and sight. Appetites 
attended by reason, are all those whatsoever which 
men exercise from a persuasion: for many things 
there are which they desire to behold, and possess, 
on hearsay and persuasion. Now, as the being 
pleased stands in the perception of a certain affec- 
tion, and as imagination is a kind of faint perception, 
there will attend on him who exercises either me- 
mory or hope, a kind of imagination of that which is 
the object of his memory or hope; but if so, it is 
plain that they who exercise memory or hope, cer- 
tainly feel pleasure, since they have also a perception. 
So that every thing pleasant consists either in the 
perception of present objects, or in the remembrance 
of those which have already been, or in the hope of 
such as are yet to be; for mer exercise perception 


4, All 
freedom 
from com 
straint, 


5. Appe 
tites are 


pleasant. 


Trration 
al. 


Rational, 


6. Hope 
and me- 

mory are 
pleasant, 


~I 


74 ARISTOTLE’S - [Boon 1, 


on present, memory on past, and hope on future ob- 


8. jects. Now the objects of memory are pleasant, not 


- 10. 


11. 


Criterion 
of love. 


12. Sor- 
row. 


only such as at the moment while present were 


pleasant, but some even which were not pleasant, 


should their consequence subsequently be honour- 
able and good; and hence this saying, “ But it is 
indeed pleasant for a man, when preserved, to re- . 
member his toils ;” and this, “ For after his suffer- 
ings, a man who has suffered much, and much 
achieved, is gladdened at the recollection.” But the 
reason of this is, that to be exempt from evil is 


. pleasant!. And all objects are pleasant in hope, 


which appear by their presence either to delight or 
benefit in a great degree; or to benefit, without 
giving pain. In a word, whatever objects by their 
presence delight us, do so, generally speaking, as we 
hope for, or remember them. On which account, 
too, the feeling of anger is pleasant ; just as Homer 
has remarked of anger in his poem, “That which 
with sweetness far greater than distilling honey as 
it drops ;” for there is no one who feels anger where 
the object seems impracticable to his revenge ; nor 
with those far their superiors in power do men feel 
anger at all, or if they do, it is in a less degree, 
There is also a kind of pleasure consequent on most 
appetites ; for either in the recollection that they 
have enjoyed them, or in the hope that they shall 
enjoy them, men are affected and delighted by a 
certain pleasure: thus men possessed by fevers feel 
delight, amid their thirst, as well at the remembrance 
how they used to drink, as at the hope of drinking 
yet again. Lovers, too, feel delight in conversing, 
writing, and composing something, ever about the 
object beloved ; because, in all those energies, they 
have a perception, as it were, of the object they love. 
And this is in all cases a criterion of the commence- 
ment of love, when persons feel pleasure not only in 


. the presence of the object, but are enamoured also of 


it when absent, on memory; wherefore, even when 


1 Suave mari magno, turbantibus equora ventis, 
Alterius procul e terra spectare dolorem, etc. Lucretius, 


«ἡ 


a 


Se 


CHAP. x1. ] RHETORIC. 75 


pain arises at absence, nay in the midst of mourning, 
and the very dirge of death, there yet arises within 


us a certain pleasure. For the pain is felt because 


the object is not present ; but the pleasure consists in 
remembering and seeing, as it were, both the person, 
and what he used to do, and the kind of character of 
which he was. Whence has it been said, and with 
probability enough, “Thus spake he, and excited 
within them all a desire of lamentation.” Also the 
avenging one’s self is pleasant; for the getting of that 
is pleasant, the failing to get which is painful: now 
the angry do feel pain in an excessive degree if they 
be not avenged ; but in the hope of revenge they take 
pleasure. Again, to overcome is pleasant, not to the 
ambitious only, but even to all; for there arises an 
imagination of superiority, for which all, either in a 


faint or more violent degree, have an appetite. But 
since to overcome is pleasant, it must follow of 
course, that amusements where there is field for 


rivalry, as those of music and disputations, are plea- 
sant ; for it frequently occurs, in the course of these, 
that we overcome ; also chess, ball, dice, and draughts. 
Again, it is the same with respect to amusements 
where a lively interest is taken®; for, of these, some 


become pleasant as accustomed to them; others are 


pleasant at first; for instance, hunting and every 
kind of sporting ; for where there is rivalry, there 
is also victory; on which principle the disputations 
of the bar and of the schools are pleasant to those 
who have become accustomed to them, and have 
abilities. Also honour and good character are most 
pleasant, by reason that an idea arises, that one is 
such as is the good man; and this in a greater de- 
gree should those people pronounce one such, who 


2 See book ii. chap. 2, ὁ 1. 

8 If this rendering for the word ἐσπουδασμένη be not tha. 
which the Greek might first suggest, yet it is that which seems 
best to suit the context; for sporting and hunting do not very 
well accord with our ideas of grave and serious amusements, 
though exercised as they were by the Greeks, as mere pre- 
paratives for the labours of military duty, they might justly 
deserve serious attention. 


13. Re= 
venge. 


14, Vic- 
tory. 


15.Henes 
amuse- 
ments, 


16. Hox- 
our and 
characteg 


17. 
Friends. 


18. Being 
admired. 


Flattery. 


19. Ha- 
bitual ac- 
tion. 

20. Va- 
riety. 


76 ARISTOTLE’S | {Rook 1. 


he think speaks truth: such are those immediately 
about one, rather than those who are more removed ; 
familiar friends, and acquaintances, and one’s fellow 
citizens, rather than those who are at a distance; 
the present, rather than a future generation ; a man 
of practical wisdom, rather than a mere ignoramus ; 
many, than a few; for it is more likely that these I 
have mentioned will adhere to the truth, than that 
the opposite characters will : since one has no anxiety 
about the honour or the opinions of such as one 
greatly despises, children and animals for instance, 
not at least for the sake of such opinion itself; but 
if one is anxious about it, then it is on «ccount of 
something else. Α friend, too, ranks among things 
pleasant ; for the affection of love is pleasant; since 
there is no lover of wine, who does not delight in 
wine: also the having affection felt toward one is 
pleasant ; for there is in this case also an idea of one’s 
being an excellent person, which all who have any 
sensibility to it are desirous of; now the having 
affection felt for you is the being beloved yourself, 
on your own account. Also the being held in admir- 
ation is pleasant, on the very account of being hon- 
oured by it. Flattery and the flatterer are pleasant ; 
since the flatterer is a seeming admirer and a seeming 
friend*. To continue the same course of action is 
also pleasant ; for what is habitual was laid down to 
be pleasant. To vary is also pleasant; for change is 
an approach to what is natural: for sameness pro- 
duces an excess of a stated habit ; whence it has 
been said, “In every thing change is pleasant?.” 
For on this principle, whatever occurs at intervals 
of time is pleasant, whether persons or things; for 


* It may be interesting to compare the grounds on which 
Dr. Johnson considered flattery pleasant with these of Arise 
totle. The Doctor’s words are, ‘‘ Flattery pleases very gener 
ally. In the first place, the flatterer may think what he says 
to be true; but, in the second place, whether he thinks so or 
not, he certainly thinks those whom he flatters of consequence 
enough to be flattered.”” Boswell’s Life, A D. 1775, δι. 66, 
p- 86, vol. iii. ; 

§ Eurip. Orest. 234. 


CHAF χι. RHETORIC, 77 


it is a variation of present objects; and at the same 
time that which occurs merely at intervals possesses 
the merit of rarity. Also learning and admiration, 
generally speaking, are pleasant; for under admira- 
tion exists a desire [to learn], so that what is admired 
is desired ; and in the act of learning there is a set- 
tlement into a state conformable to nature. To benefit 
and to be benefited are also of the number of plea- 
sant things; for to be benefited, is to get what peo- 
ple desire ; but to benefit, is to possess and abound ; 
things, the both of which men desire. And because 
a tendency to beneficence is pleasant ®, it is also plea- 
sant to a man to set his neighbour on his legs again, 
and to put a finish to that which was deficient in 
some particular. But as the acquisition of know- 
ledge is pleasant, and the feeling admiration, and 
such things; that, too, must necessarily be pleasant 
which has been expressed in imitation, as in painting, 
sculpture, and poetry: also, every thing is pleasant 
which has been correctly imitated, although the ori- 
ginal object, of which it is the imitation, may not in 
itself be pleasant ; for one does not feel pleasure on 
that account; but there is an inference that “this 
means that:” and thus it happens that we learn 
something. Also sudden reyolutions’, and the being 
saved from danger narrowly; for all these are cases 
exciting admiration. Again, since that is pleasant 
which is conformable to nature, and things which are 
akin are respectively conformable to nature, every 
thing like and akin, speaking generally, is pleasant ; 


6 This principle of pleasure has been thus deyeloped by 
Hooker: “As to love them of whom we receive good things 
is a duty, because they satisfy our desires in that which else 
we should want; so to love them on whom we bestow is nature, 
because in them we behold the effects of our own virtue.””—Ecc. 
Pol. v. § 63, p. 285. See also what is said towards the end of 
this chapter, of the love borne towards whatever is, in any 
sense, an ἔργον of own—as children, works of genius, etc. 

7°Eoti δὲ περιπέτεια ἡ εἰς τὸ ἐναντίον τῶν πραττομένων 
μεταβολὴ, κι τ. λ. Poet. 21. Twining explains it to be, 
“when,” ina drama, “ the things that are doing have an effect 
the very reverse of which is expected from them,” ij. 77. 


21. Learn 
ing: ad- 
miration 


22. To do 
good: to 
receive 


good. 


a 
Imita- 
tion. 


Painting 
Seulp- 
ture. 
Poetry. 


24. Re- 
verses. 
Narrow 
escapes. 
25. Simi- 
larity and 
conformi- 
ty to na- 
ture and 
ourselvea. 


a¢-P ower, 


Wisdom. 
Censure. 


28. Dwell- 
ing on 
one’s own 
excellen- 
cies, 


78 | ARISTOTLE’S [po σ. 


2s man to man, horse to horse, and youth to youth. 
Whence also these proverbs originate: “ Fellows in 
age, delight ;”—“‘ Whatever is similar ;”—“ Beasts 
recognise their species ;”——“‘ Birds of a feather fiock 


. together ;” and every other saying of this sort. But 


as every thing like and akin is delightful to it, and 
as every one stands to himself in this relation in a 
most special manner, all must be, more or less, lovers 
of themselves; for all these qualities do in a par 
ticular manner exist in reference to self. But as all 
are lovers of themselves, that necessarily which is 
their own must be pleasant to all; as, for instance, 
their sayings and productions. On which account 
men are in general fond of flatterers and lovers, and 
are ambitious and fond of children; for children are 
their own production®. It is also pleasant to put a 
finish to what is deficient; for it became by that 
time one’s own production. And as rule is the most 
pleasant of all things, the appearing to be wise is 
also pleasant ; for knowledge is a principle of power ; 
and wisdom is a knowledge of many subjects, and 
those commanding admiration. Moreover, as men 
in general are ambitious, the power of rebuking one’s 
neighbour must needs be pleasant. Also the pausing 
on that province in which he appears to be best, 
when compared with his own powers in other re- 
spects; just as Euripides remarks, “And this he 
plies, allotting the greatest part of each day to it, 


8 One passion is often productive of another: examples are 
without number; the sole difficulty is a proper choice. I be- 
gin with self-love, and the power it hath to generate love to 
children. Every man, beside making part of a greater system, 
like a comet, a planet, or satellite only, hath a less system of 
his own, in the centre of which he represents the sun, darting 
his fire and heat all around ; especially upon his nearest con- 
nexions; the connexion between a man and his children, 
Jundamentally that of cause and effect, becomes, by the addi- 
tion of other circumstances, the completest that can be among 
individuais ; and therefore self-love, the most vigorous of all 
passions, is readily expanded upon children. Lord Kames’s 
Elements of Criticism, chap. ii. part 1, § 5. 

9 The cumpletion of what has been left unfinished was bee 
fore stated to be pleasant on another principle.. See ᾧ 22. 


owaP. xit.] NHETORIC. 79 


in which, himself being compared with himben, he 
appears most excellent. * 

In a similar way, since amusement ranks among 
pleasant things, and as every relaxation and laughter 
is of the number, things ridiculous must therefore of 
course be pleasant, as well persons as expressions and 
productions. But on the subject of the ridiculous, a 
detailed discussion has been entered into in the 
Poetics!°. Let thus much have been said on the sub- 
ject of things pleasant; from the contraries of these 
things, what is painful will be evident. These, 
then, are the objects for the sake of which men act 
unjustly. 


CHAP. XII. 


With what Dispositions men eommit Injustice, in what 
instances, and towards whom. 


LET us now state with what dispositions men commit 
injustice, and towards whom they do so. As regards 
themselves then, it is when they think the thing is 
one possible to be done, and possible to themselves ; 
and either that, in doing it, they shall escape detec- 
tion, or, if they do not escape it, that they shall not 
suffer punishment, or that they shall indeed suffer 
a punishment, but that the damage thereby incur- 
red will be less than the gain, either to themselves 
or those for whom they have a regard. Now the 


subject of things which appear possible, and those: 


which appear tmpossible, will be explained in the se- 
quel; for these are points applicable in common to 
all kinds of rhetoric!. Now as to their own advan- 
tages, those men think they are in the highest degree 


likely to commit injustice with impunity, who are of. 
talented. 


ability in speaking, and men of the world, and such 
as have experienced many a forensic contest. If, 


In one of the books which has unfortunately been lost. 
His definition of it is, αἰσχρὸν ἄνευ λυπηροῦ. 
' They are, in fact, τόποι, ii. 19. 


29. 
Laughter 


1. Πῶς 
ἔχοντες, 
or the 
agents of 
injustice, 
then act 
unjustly, 
when it 
seems pos< 
sible that 
they shall 
escape de- 
tection. 


2. 


The 


The pow- 
erful. 


aC ARISTOTLE’S [Boon 1 


too, they happen to have many friends. If they be 


3 rich?. And more particularly do they think they 


‘ can get off, if they be themselves* possessed of the: 


4.If likely 
to escape 
detection. 


δ. Such as 
the oppo- 
sites to the 
charge, 
etc, 


forestated qualities ; and if they be not themselves so 
qualified, yet if they have friends, or supporters, or 
associates‘ of such talents, then also they think to. 
get off; for these are the endowments, by aid of | 
which men are able both to act, to escape detection, ἡ 
and avoid punishment®. Again, if they be friends, 1 
either of the injured party, or of the judge; because © 
friends are off their guard against injustice, and are 
moreover appeased before prosecuting their revenge. 
But the judges gratify their friends, and either alto- 
gether let them off, or amerce them in a trifle. 

People likely to escape detection, are those the very 
opposite in character to the charge; as, a man of per- 
sonal imbecility, on a charge of assault; or one poor 
and deformed, on a charge of adultery. Again, cir- 
cumstances exceedingly palpable, and in the eyes of 
all the world; for these are unobserved, by reason 


. that no one would think of them at all. Acts, too, 


of such enormity and such a character that no one 
would presume; for in regard to these also men are 
off their guard: for it is against crimes which are 


? He remarks, in his Politics, the general tendency to insub- 
ordination and disobedience to laws observable in the rich and 
prosperous ;—oi μὲν ἐν ὑπεροχαῖς εὐτυχημάτων ὄντες, ἰσχύος, 
καὶ πλούτου, καὶ φίλων, καὶ τῶν ἄλλων τῶν τοιούτων, ἄρχεσθαι 
οὔτε βούλονται οὔτε ἐπίστανται. Polit. iv. ὁ. 11. Upon the 
same principle Tacitus remarks, ‘‘ Opes principibus infensas.”’ 
Ann. lib. xi. c. 1 

3 In the Ethics, where, in speaking of Βούλευσις, he limits 
its sphere first and generally to things possible, he remarks— 
Δυνατὰ δὲ, ἃ δι᾽ ἡμῶν γένοιτο av. Ta δὲ διὰ τῶν φίλων δι᾽ ἡμῶν 
πῶς ἐστίν ἡ γὰρ ἀρχὴ ἐν ἡμῖν. Eth. Nich. iii. 3, 

1 The Thessalonian Menon, in Xenophon, courted the 
friendship of men in power with this view: φίλος τ᾽ ἐβούλετο 
εἶναι τοῖς μέγιστον δυναμένοις, ἵνα ἀδικῶν μὴ διδοί» δίκην. 
Anab. lib. ii. c. 6. vid. infra. 

5. The yast assistance to be derived from friends and sup- 
porters by those who are under accusation, may be illustrated 
by the following strong expressions of Augustus, who said, 
*Cunctari se, ne, st superesset, eriperet legibus reum; sin dee 
esset, destituere, ac predamnare amicum videretur.”’ Sueton. 


CHAP. XII.] RHETORIC, 81 


ordinary, as it is against bodily infirmity of an usual 
kind, that men set themselves on their guard ; but as 
‘to cases in which no one yet has been afflicted, no 
one is cautious. Also those people are open to at- 
tack, to whom no one is an enemy, or to whom many 
are ; for in the one case the aggressors think to escape 
detection from their not being on their guard; and 
in the other, they escape from its not seeming likely 
that they would make an attempt on people ever on 
their guard, and from their having ever at hand the 
plea, that they never could have been so mad as to 
attempt it. Those again are likely to act unjustly, 
who have at hand means of concealing or changing 
property, places to hide, or any easy means of dispos- 
ing of it. All those persons, too, who, if they do not 
escape, having nevertheless means of setting aside the 
sentence, or of tedious delay, or of corrupting the 
judges ; and who, if the fine be imposed, can yet set 
aside its payment, or put it off a length of time, or who, 
from their neediness, have nothing to lose. All, too, 
who have the gain clearly in view, or great, or close 
at hand; while the loss is trifling, indistinct, and at a 
distance. Also any one to whom the punishment is 
not adequate tothe advantage ; of which kind atyranny 
seems to be. All, again,-in whose case the commission 
of injustice is an act of gain, while the punishment is 
mere opprobrium. So, on the contrary, are they 
whose unjust acts lead to a kind of credit, (as if it 
should happen for one, in their commission to avenge 
a father or mother, as was the case of Zeno,) while 
the punishment leads merely t fine, banishment, or 
something of that kind; for both descriptions of 
persons act unjustly ; however, they are not the same 
in character, but the very opposite. Persons, too, 
who have often escaped notice, or who have not been 
punished. People who have often met with ill 
success ; for these, like persons engaged in warlike 
eeatane, are of a disposition to renew the contest. 

very one also to whom the pleasant is immediate, 
while the painful is subsequent ; or if the object be 
gain, while the loss is subsequent ; for all inconti- 

ᾳ 


τι 


8. Such 
as have 
means of 
conceal- 
ment. 


9. Where 
there is 
great 
gain. 


10. Where 
the pun- ᾿ 
ishment 
is only op- 
probrium, 


11. The 
undetect- 
ed, 

The un- 
lucky. 


12, Where 
the plea- 
sure is im: 
mediate. 


13. Or 
some- 
times 
when re- 
mote. 


14. Where 
another 
motive 
will be at- 
tributed. 


15. Men 
in want. 
i. Who 

want ne- 
cessaries. 
ii. Who 


Men of 
bad cha- 
racter. 
17. The 
persons 
exposed to 
injustice 
are: such 
as have 
the de- 
sired ob- 
ject. 

18. The 
distant. 
The near, 


ARISTOTLE’S [spook 1. 


nent persons are thus affected: now incontinence is 
conversant about all objects whatsoever which men 
desire®. And on the contrary, persons are wont to 
act unjustly in cases where the painful or loss is 
immediate, but the pleasant and expedient is subse- 
quent, and slow in presenting itself; for continent 
persons, and such as have rather more practical 
wisdom, pursue objects of this kind. Wherever, 
too, a person may appear to have acted by chance, 
by necessity, natural bent, or habit ; and, in a word, 
to be guilty of error, not of zajustice. Also in what- 
ever cases it may happen that one would meet with 
equity. Again, whatever persons are in want: now 
men are in want two ways; for either they want 
necessaries, like the poor; or something in excess, 
just as the rich’. People, too, of exceedingly good 
character, or such as are utterly destitute of charac- 
ter ; the first, on the principle that they shall not 
appear the culprits ; the last, that they shall not be 
a whit worse off as to character. Thus affected 


. In themselves, then, it is that men attack their 


neighbours. 

But they act unjustly against persons, and on ac- 
count of objects, of the following descriptions. Per- 
sons who possess things which themselves are in need 
of, be it for necessaries, for superfluity, or for sensual 
enjoyment: people who are at a distance, and those 
who are near: for the means of getting at the one are 
quick, and the vengeance of the others is slow ; as on 
those, for instance, who plunder Carthaginians®: and 


6 Although incontinence, properly so called, is excited by a 
limited description of objects, yet there is a feeling analogous 
to, and, in the vague language of the world, synonymous with 
it, which may be excited by any objects whatsoever ;—v7oAn7- 
Téov μόνον ἀκρασίαν Kal ἐγκράτειαν εἶναι, ἥτις ἐστὶ περὶ τὰ 
αὐτὰ τῇ σωφροσύνῃ καὶ τῇ ἀκολασίᾳ. ἹΤερὶ δὲ θυμὸν, καθ᾽ 
ὁμοιότητα λέγομεν. ἘΠῚ. Nich. vii. 4. This is another of the 
many instances, in which Aristotle supposes the rhetorician to 
take a popular view of his subject. 

7 Exilis domus est ubi non et multa supersunt. 
lib. i. 6, 45. 

8. This may have been a proverbial expression for desig- 
pating any attack on a remote object; sinre, considered in 


Hor. Ep. 


Guar. xn. | RHETORIC. 83 


menu who are not cautious, nor apt to be on their 19. 
guard, but are of a disposition to repose confidence ; 
for it is easy enough to elude all such. Also towards The indo~ 
such as are of an indolent turn; for to prosecute is the !e™*- 

part of a man who is strenuous. Against such also as Those 


@ ᾿ o have 
have a delicate sense of honour ;_for these-are-not-apt ih) Ὁ 


~to squabble about gain: and again, those who have sence of _ 
heen wronged by many already, yet without their pro- oe 
secuting ; as though these were, in the words of the ”° 

proverb, “a prey to very Mysians’.” Both against 21. The 


“those-who never yet have been wrongéd, and those  τοπροά. 


he un- 
armed. 


§ 
idea ‘hat they never shall be wronged, the last as 
though they should not be wronged any more : also 23. Those 


-against those who have had imputations thrown on in a 
their characters, or w it; for such - ; 
ple, from a fear of the judges, do not take on them- 


selves to effect persuasion, neither, in fact, ar 
able ; of whic é o are disliked and en- 
vied. Men act unjustly also towards those against 23. Such 


they have any pretext, on_the part either he brea! " 
their ancestors, themselves or friends, that they have 
wrought ill, or intended it, either against themselves, 


or their anc » for whom they havea-re-— 
gard; for, as the proverb goes, ‘ ice wan 


an €xCcuse. gainst frien 


are acts of injustice committed ; for against the first haga 
nemics, 


it is easy", against the others pleasant: also against 


reference to Greece under the then imperfect state of naviga- 
tion, Carthage was an object not easily got at. 

9 The Mysians were so effeminate and unwarlike, that their 
neighbours made encroachments on their territory with im- 
punity, so that they became proverbial through Greece. 

10 Some traits in the character of the Thessalian Menon, as 
given by Xenophon, will serve to illustrate Aristotle’s cata- 

_ togue of these objects of villany. Of Menon it was remarked, 
“ rots μὲν TON TIOAEMIQN κτήμασιν οὐκ ἐπεβούλευε" αὐ υλ 
πὸν γὰρ weTo εἶναι τὰ ΤΩΝ ®YAATTOMENQN AapBaver'— 
τὰ δὲ TON ΦΙΛΩΝ μόνος ᾧετο εἰδέναι ὅτι ῥᾷσπον᾽ A®YA AKTA 
Aau advew. Kai ὅσους μὲν ἂν αἰσθάνοιτο ε ἐπιόρκους καὶ ἀδίκους, 
ὡς εὖ ὡπλισμένους ἐφοβεῖτο᾽ τοῖς δ᾽ ὁσίοις καὶ ἀλήθειαν ἀσκοῦσιν 

ὡς ἀνάνδροις ἐπειρᾶτο χρῆσθαι. Anab. lib. ii. c. 6. 
οἷς Upon this principe the remark of Demonax was grounded 


ᾳ 2 


The 
friendless. 
Those 
who are 
not elo- 
quent nor 
active. 

25. Those 
who can- 
not afford 
to wait. 
26. The 
unjust, 


27. 


28. 


99. Our 
enemies, 


20. Those 
just on 
the point 


81 ARISTOTLE’S “BOOK 1. 


those who are friendless, and those who are not of 
ability in speaking or acting ; because these either do 
not at all attempt to prosecute, or are reconciled, or 
bring nothing to the point: also against those whom 
it will not pay to be waiting in watch for the sentence 
of court, or the payment of the fine; for instance, 
foreigners and mechanics; for people under these cir- 
cumstances are reconciled for a trifle, and are easily 
hushed. People, too, who themselves have been 
guilty of injustice in many instances, or in cases of 
the very character under which they now are wronged ; 

because it appears to approximate in some degree to 
non-commission of injustice, when a person shall have ~ 
been wronged in a particular, in which he is himself 

wont to be guilty; it is, I mean, as if one were in- 
solently to assault the person of a man who is himself 
in the habit of being insolent. Those also get in- 
jured who have wrought ill, or who possessed, or do 
now possess, an inclination to do so, or who are about 
to do so; for the act involves what is pleasant and 
honourable; and it appears to approximate to non- 
commission of injury: those, too, in injuring whom, 
aman gratifies his friends, those he admires or loves, 
on whom he is in dependence, or, in a word, all at 
whose control he lives, and at whose hands it happens 
he will meet with equitable consideration. Men also 
wrong those with whom they have ground of quarrel, 
and have been previously at variance, as Calippus 
did in the case about Dion; for acts of this nature 
seem to approximate to a non-commission of injus- 
tice: and those who are on the eve of being injured 
by others, should we not do so ourselves; since this 
—E: λάσσω κακὰ πάσχουσιν οἱ ἄνθρωποι ὑπὸ τῶν ἐχθρῶν, ἢ ὑπὸ 
τῶν φίλων. τοὺς μὲν γὰρ ἐ θροὺς δεδίοτες φυλάσσονται" τοῖς δὲ 
φίλοις ἀνεωγμένοι εἰσὶ, καὶ γίνονται σφαλεροὶ καὶ εὐεπιβοὺ- 
λευτοι. Nor did this escape the penetration of that keen ob- 
server of human nature, Tacitus: Quibus deerat inimicus, per 
amicos oppressi. Hist. i. 3. Pomponium Flaccum, veterem 
stipendiis, et arcté cum rege amicitia, eo datiorem ad 
Jallendum, ob id maxime Meesie prefecit. Ann. ii. 66. To 
this purpose, too, is the maxim of P. Syrus, Mage cavenda 


est amicorum invidia, quam insidiz hostium. See also Proe 
verbs, iil. 29 


CHAP. X11] RHETORIC. ᾿ δὸ 


admits no longer any deliberation; just as Ζηο681- 
demus is said to have sent presents of cups 12 to Gelon 
_ after he had reduced some state, because he had gotten 
the start, himself being on the eve of attempting it. 
Injurers attack those, also, by injuring whom they 
will be enabled to do many acts of justice, as though 
they could easily amend their error; just as Jason 
the Thessalian said, ‘‘that in some particulars one 
must needs act with injustice, in order to his being 
able to do many deeds of justice 15: again, they attack 
people in those particulars, in regard to which, all or 
most persons usually act wrong ; because here they 
think te meet with fellow feeling: in regard also to 
particulars easy to conceal, of which nature are arti- 
cles quickly consumed, victuals for instance ; or ar- 
ticles admitting a ready change, either in shape, co- 
lour, or composition ; or which it is easy to put out 
of sight in a variety of places; of which sort are 
articles easily portable, and hidden in small places ; 
articles also the like to which, or some undistinguish- 
able from them, have previously been in the posses- 
sion of the individuals who thus violate justice. 
Men injure, moreover, in regard to such particulars, 
as the injured parties have a delicacy in mentioning ; 
thus in assaults on females intimately connected, or 
on themselves, or on their children: in all cases, too, 
in regard to which the prosecuting party would ap- 
pear litigious; of this nature are trifling things, and 
those in which people sympathize and forgive. 


of being 
injured 
by others, 


31. Those 
whom 
they can 
compen- 
sate. 


32. Men 
injure 
where the 
articles 
are easy to 
conceal, 


le 


34, Port- 
able. 


35. Diffi- 
cult to be 
identified, 
Where 
the party 
injured 
feels a de- 
licaey in” 
alluding 
to the 
subject. 
Where it 
looks li- 
tigious te 
deman:i 


12 The amusement of the κότταβος had become so popular justice. 


at the Grecian banquets, that persons who practised it with 
superior dexterity were presented with rewards, κοτταβεῖα, 
supposed by some commentators to have been a sort of cups 
or vessels peculiarly adapted to the purposes of the game. See 
Meursius de Ludis Vet. Grec. p. 28, v. Κοτταβισμός. Vid. 
Athene, fol. 666, ubi de Cottabo. Critias ibid. : 

Κότταβος ἐκ Σικελῆς ἐστὶ χθονὸς, ἐκπρεπὲς ἔργον" 

Ὃν σκοπὸν ἐς λαταγῶν τόξα καθιστάμεθα. 
See Victorius, and also Barnes’s note on Frag. 105, in his 
edition of Anacreon. 

‘8 Thus, too, the Jesuits contended that “ evil might .e done 

im order to produce good.” 


86 ARISTOTLE’S [zoox 1. 


The dispositions then under which, the objects for 
whose sake, and the person towards whom, men act 
unjustly, and why they do so, are nearly these which 
I have stated. 


CHAP. XIII. 
Of Acts of Injustice, and Matters of Equity. 


ComMENCING from this point, let me mark in detail 
all acts which conform to, or which violate justice. 
Now right and wrong have been defined in reference 
to two kinds of law, and in a twofold way also in re- 
gard to those persons to whom they refer'. Law?, 
now, I understand, to be either peculiar or universal ; 
peculiar, to be that which has been marked out by 
each people in reference to itself, and that this is 
partly unwritten, partly written. I call that law uni- 
versal, which is conformable merely to dictates of na- 
ture ; for there does exist naturally an universal sense 
of right and wrong’, which, in a certain degree, all 


! Vid. Eth. Nich. v. 7. 

3 The description of Law given by Demosthenes is, perhaps 
the most perfect and satisfactory that can either be found or 
conceived ; Oi δὲ νόμοι τὸ δίκαιον καὶ τὸ καλὸν καὶ τὸ συμφέ- 
gov βούλονται, καὶ τοῦτο ζητοῦσι" καὶ ἐπειδὰν εὑρεθῆ κοινὸν 
τοῦτο πρόσταγμα ἀπεδείχθη, πᾶσιν ἴσον καὶ ὅμοιον. καὶ τοῦτ᾽ 
ἐστὶ νόμος, ᾧ πάντας προσήκει πείθεσθαι, διὰ πολλὰ, καὶ μά- 
λισθ᾽, ὅτι πᾶς ἐστὶ νόμος εὕρημα μὲν καὶ δῶρον Θεῶν, δόγμα δ᾽ 
ἀνθρώπων φρονίμων, ἐπανόρθωμα δὲ τῶν ἑκουσίων καὶ ἀκουσίων 
ἁμαρτημάτων. πόλεως δὲ συνθήκη κοινή" καθ᾽ Hv πᾶσι προσήκει 
ζῆν τοῖς ἐν τῇ πολει. The design and object of Laws is to 
ascertain what is just, honourable, and expedient; and when 
that is discovered, it is proclaimed as a general ordinance, 
equal and impartial to all. This is the origin of law, which, 
for various reasons, all are under an obligation to obey, but 
especially because all law is the invention and gift of Heaven, 
the sentiment of wise men, the correction of every offence, and 
the general compact of the state; te live in conformity with 
which is the duty of every individual in society. Orat. i. contr. 
Aristogit. Notes on Blackstone. 

° This law of nature, being coeval with mankind, and die- 
tated by God himself, is of course superior in obligation to any 


cHar. x111.] RHETORIC. 87 


intuitively divine, even should no intercourse with 
each other, nor any compact have existed‘; which 
sentiment the Antigone of Sophocles enters uttering, 
that it was just, namely to bury Polynices, though de- 
nounced, since this by nature was a deed of justice: 
““ ἘῸΓ by no means is it for this or the next day mere- 
ly that this maxim is in force, but for ever; nor is 
there any one who knows from whom it proceeded ὅ, 
And as Empedocles says on the subject of not slaying 
that which has life: for this maxim is not right here, 
and wrong there, “but a principle of law to all, it is 
extended uninterruptedly throughout the spacious 
firmament and boundless light.” And as Alcidamas 
remarks in the Messeniac oration. 

As to the persons also in reference to whom right 
and wrong have been defined, a twofold distinction 
has been made®; for that which we ought to do and 
to leave undone, exists in reference either to the com- 
munity, or to an individual member of it. And hence 
we may, as regards acts of justice, and the contrary, 
violate justice or adhere to it in two ways; for we 
may do so in reference either to an individual, or 


Injusties 
against 
the com- 
munity. 


to the community: for the man who is guilty of Injustice 


adultery, or of an assault, injuries some individual; 
but he who will not bear arms injures the commu- 


nity. 

other. It is binding over all the globe, in all countries, and at 
all times: no human laws are of any validity, if contrary to 
this; and such of them as are valid derive all their force and 
all their authority, mediately or immediately, from this original. 
Blackstone, Comment. Introduct. ᾧ 2, p. 4]. 

* See the subject of natural law admirably illustrated in the 
first book of Hooker’s Ecclesiastical Polity, § 8, 9. 

* Thus Lord Hale says of the common law of England, 
“ The original of the common law is as undiscoverable as the 
head of the Nile.” Hist. Com. Law, 55. 

6 Wrongs are divisible into two sorts or species,—private 
torongs and public wrongs. The former are an infringemen* or 
privation of the private or civil rights belonging to individuals, 
considered as individuals, and are therefrom frequently termed 
ciyil injuries. ‘The latter are a breach and violation of public 
rights and duties, which affect the whole community, con- 
sepean Ἢ ὃ. community,” etc. Blackstone’s Commentaries, 

iii, ὁ. 


against 
the indi- 
vidual, _ 


4. 


5. 


6. 


7. 


9. We 
must 
know the 
definition 
of the va- 
rious acts 
of injus- 
téce. 


10. 


88 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 1. 


Now as all acts of violating justice have been dis- 
tinguished, and as some of them are against the com- 
munity, and others against one or more individual 
members of it, let me, after reverting to what the suf- 
fering injustice is, explain the rest. Now to be injured, 
is to suffer injustice at the hands of a willing agent; 
for commission of injustice has been previously de- 
fined to be a voluntary act. As however it is neces- 
sary that the person injured should be hurt, and in- 
voluntarily hurt. Now what Awrt is will be evident 
from what has gone before ; for things good and evil 
have been distinctly spoken of above, and voluntary 
acts also; namely, ihat they are all things done know- 
ingly. So that all grounds for complaint must exist, 
necessarily in reference either to the community, or 
to individual interests ; the agent being either uncon- 
scious, or unwilling, or willing and conscious; and 
[in the last] of these cases, acting either on deliberate 
choice, or on the impulse of passion, Now I shall 
treat on the subject of anger in my discussion of the 
passions ; but it has been above explained under what 
circumstances, and with what dispositions, men act on 
deliberate principle. | 

But as people, while they acknowledge their hav- 
ing acted in such a way, very frequently will not ac- 
knowledge the designation in the indictment, or the 
view of the case on which the indictment turns: a 
man will avow, for example, his having taken a 
thing, but not his having stolen it; that he struck 
the first blow, but yet did not zmsult; that he co- 
habited, but did not commit adultery, with the woman 
in question ; or that he stole, but was not guilty of 
sacrilege, for it was not consecrated property ; or that 
he did till beyond his boundary, but encroached not 
upon public land ; or conversed with the enemy, but 


‘was yet not guilty of treason: it will, for these rea- 


sons, be necessary to lay down definitions on these 
matters ; as to what essentially constitutes theft, in- 
sult, and adultery ; in order that, if we wish to show 
that they really do or do not exist, we may be able 
to set the right of the case in a true light. Now all 


OBAP. Χαμ. RHETORIC. 89 


these questions, as to a matter being unjust and cri- 
minal, or not unjust, do in fact constitute the ground 
of inquiry ; for the criminality and injustice of the act 
stands essentially in the deliberate principle on which 
it is done; and this sort of terms marks, over and 
above the matter of fact, the principle also of the 
agent ; the terms, assault and felony, for instance ; for 
because a man has struck another, he will not under 
all circumstances have assaulted him, but if he has 
done so with a view to something, as with a view to 
treat him with disrespect, or to his own gratification : 
neither, supposing a man has taken privily, has he 
been guilty, in every case, of larceny ; but if he took 
it to the injury of another, or in order to appropriate 
it to himself, then indeed he has been guilty of larceny. 
The case too is similar respecting other terms de- 
signating crimes to what has been remarked respect- 
ing these. 

But as there were two species of things right and 
wrong ; for one was of written prescript, the other of 
unwritten law ; now those on the subject of which 
the laws speak a written language have been treated 
of ; and of those arising from unwritten law there are 
two kinds. And these are, the one class which is 
always in proportion to the excess of vice or virtue 
of the agent, on which are consequent either cen- 
sures and praises, or deprivation of rank and marks 
of distinction and public grants ; thus, for instance, 
the being grateful to a benefactor, and the repaying 
with kindness one who has been kind to yourself, and 
the having an inclination to aid one’s friends, and 
whatever other duties are of this kind: the other 
class, are the supplement’ of the peculiar and written 
law of states; for the equitable should seem to be 
somewhat just. And equity is that idea οἵ justice, 
which contravenes the written law. And this con- 


_ 7°EITANO’POQMA νόμον, ἢ ἐλλείπει διὰ τὸ καθόλου. 
Ethics, v.10. ‘ The correction of that, wherein the law (by 
reason of its universality) is deficient.” Grotius de Aiqui- 
_ tate, § 8, 

® We see in contracts, and ofher dealings which daily pass 


The un- 
written 
law is 
twofold; . 
12. i. καθ’ 
ὑπερβο- 
λὴν ἀρε- 
τῆς καὶ 
κακίας. 


li. τὸ τοῦ 
ἰδίου καὶ 
γεγραμ- 
μένου ἕλ- 
λειαμα, 
or equity, 
13. 


14, 


90 ARISTOTLE’S _BOOK 1. 


tradiction happens, partly indeed against the will, 
and partly with the will of the legislator: it then 
happens against his will, when the question may have 
escaped his notice ; but, with his will, whenever he 
has it not in his power accurately to’ make distinc- 
tion, but it is necessary that he pronounce univer- 
sally, though the case be not so absolutely without 
exceptions, but generally only. Thus also in respect 
to all cases about which, by reason of their infinitude, 
it is not easy to make distinctions ; such, with regard 
to wounding with steel, are the distinctions as to the 
size and nature of the instrument, for an age would 
fail one in the enumeration. Be it then that the case 
admits not such distinctions, yet if one must needs 
enact a law respecting it, he cannot do otherwise than 
speak in general terms®; so that one who has so 
much as a ring on his finger, and lifts up his hand and 
strikes you, does by the letter of the written law 
stand guilty, and acts unjustly ; but in real truth he 
does not act unjustly !°; and this is the equity of the 


between man and man, that, to the utter undoing of some, 
many things by strictness of law may be done, which Equity 
and HONEST MEANING forbiddeth. Not that the Law is unjust, 
but imperfect; nor equity against, but above the law, binding 
men’s consciences in things which the law cannot reach unto, 
Will any man say that the virtue of private equity is opposite 
and repugnant to that law, the silence whereof it supplieth in all 
such private dealing? No more is public equity against the 
law of public affairs; albeit, the one permit unto some, in 
special considerations, that which the other, agreeably with 
general rules of justice, doth tm general sort forbid. For, sith 
all good laws are the voices of right reason, which is the in- 
strument wherewith God will have the world guided, and im- 
possible it is that right should withstand right; it must follow 
that principles and rules of justice, be they never so generally 
uttered, do no less effectually intend, than if they did plainly 
express, an exception of all particulars, wherein their literal 
practice might any way prejudice equity. Hooker, Ὁ. v. § 9, p. 35. 

9 Αἴτιον δ᾽, ὅτι ὁ μὲν νόμος καθόλου πᾶς" περὶ ἐνίων δὲ οὐχ 
οἷον τὲ ὀρθῶς εἰπεῖν καθόλου. Arist. Ethics, v. 10. Compare 
the whole chapter with what is said above. 

10 Not without singular wisdom, therefore, it hath been pro- 
vided, that as the ordinary course of common affairs is 418. 
posed of by general laws, so likewise men’s rarer incident nee 
cessities and utilities should be with special equity considered. 
Hooker, Ὁ. v. c. 9, p. 35. 


CHAP. XIII. ] RHETORIC. 91 


case. Now if equity be what it has been stated to 
be, it will be evident what kind of things are equit- 
able, and what not so; also what kind of persons are 
not equitable. Since in whatever cases one is bound 
to have a fellow-feeling, these are all cases of equity. 
Again, equity is the not esteeming faults and crimes 
of equal guilt, nor accidents, and faults. Now acci- 
dents are whatever things happen against all calcula- 
tion, and proceed not from criminal principle ; and 
faults are whatever things do not happen against cal- 
culation, nor proceed from criminal principle ; but 
crimes are whatever things, not falling out contrary 
to calculation, proceed from criminal principle ; for 
the things which are done through desire, proceed 
from criminal principle. Equity also is the having a 
sympathy for human failings ; and the having an eye, 
not to the law, but to the lawgiver; and not to the 
language, but to the intention of the lawgiver!!. And 
not to the conduct, but to the principles of the agent ; 
not to his conduct in one particular, but to its whole 
tenor. Not what kind of person he has been in this 
instance, but what he has always shown himself, or 
generally at least. The having, too, a remembrance 
of the good one has received, rather than of the ill; 
of the good one has received, rather than what one 
has done ; though injured, to endure it patiently ; to 
prefer a decision by argument, rather than by re- 
course to action: a wish to proceed to arbitration, 
rather than to judicial decision, for the arbitrator 
looks to what is equitable, the judge to what is law ; 
and in order to this it was that arbitration was in- 
troduced, in order, namely, that equity might prevail. 
So far then for our distinctions on the subject of what 
is equitable. 


t! Therefore the Bolognian law, mentioned by Puffendorf, 
which enacted, ‘‘ that whoever drew blood in the streets should 
be punished with the utmost severity,’’ was held after long de- 
bate not to extend to the surgeon, who opened the vein of a 
person that fell down in the street with a fit. Blackstone, 
Comment. Introd. § 2, p. 61. For a variety of such cases, see 
Rhet ad Herennium, lib. i. ὁ. ii. ete. 


15. Equi- 
ty consists 
in fellow- 


feeling. 


16. 


17. In 


sympa- 
thy. 


18. In 
looking to 
the mo- 
tive more 
than the 
act. 


19. Will- 
ingness to 
arbitrate, 


1. Greater 
offences 
are those 
arising 

; from 

_ greater 
principle. 


2. Where 
the penal- 
ty is not 
equiva- 
lent. 


8. Where 
the in- 
jured 
partyhath 
wronged 
himself in 
conse- 
quence. 


92 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK & 


CHAP. XIV, 
Of the Degrees of Guiit. 


THOSE acts of injustice are greater in degree, which 
proceed from the greater principle of injustice!; and 
on this account the most trifling are the greatest; as 
the charge which Callistratus laid against Melenopus, 
that he had defrauded the builders of the temple in 
his accounts, to the amount of three half farthings 
of consecrated property; but in the case of justice, 
things are more or less just in a contrary ratio”. 
Now these criteria arise from the actions virtually 
exceeding ; for he who stole three half farthings of 
consecrated money would cheat one in any thing. 
The degree of an act of injustice is decided then, 
sometimes on this principle, at otliers on that of the 
harm done. Those also are very flagrant, for which 
no punishment is an equivalent, but of which every 
one falls short; as also that which there is no means 
of healing ; for such a case is difficult and impracti- 
cable: also where the injured party can get no re- 
dress in court; for the evil is without cure, because 
chastisement and a judicial sentence are a cure. If 
the party suffering, and who was wronged, hath 
grievously injured himself’; for then the man who 
did the wrong deserves punishment in a still greater 
degree ; just as Sophocles said when pleading in be- 
half of Kuctemon, who, on being insolently assaulted, 
slew himself; “ that he would price the deed at no 


! See Gibbon’s Decline and Fall, c. 44, at note 188. Mea- 
sure of Guilt, vol. viii. p. 98. 

3 So much for the standard of injustice; for it is evident 
that any man who is sufficiently depraved to cheat you for a 
farthing, would not scruple to do so for a larger sum. But in 
the contrary habit of the mind, a contrary ratio holds, in the 
case of conforming to rules of justice—ré ἐλάχιστα, ἐλάχιστα; 
for a man may be very honest in minor transactions, who 
would not scruple to cheat you if a greater temptation were 
thrown in his way. 

3 As in the case of Lucretia: her killing herself was an 
aggravation of the guilt of Tarquin. 


CHAP. 21¥.} RHETORIC. 93 


less cost than the sufferer had prized himself at.” 
Crimes, too, of which the present criminal has alone 4. Where 
been guilty, or he first, or very few besides. Also the oF 
the being frequently guilty of the same enormity. cae ἫΝ 
Any thing too on account of which new prohibitory first. 
and penal statutes have been sought out, and intro- | 
duced ; as at Argos they punish any one on whose 
account a law may have been enacted, and those on 

account of whom the prison was erected. That act 5. The 
of injustice also is greater, which is of a more brutal jy 
character. That too which proceeds more immedi- : 
ately from malice aforethought. That too which, as 

they hear of, people are affected by dread, rather 

than compassion. And the rhetorical expedients for 
exaggeration are as follows ;—“ he hath swept away 

or overleaped many principles of justice,” as oaths, 

the plighting of his hand, pledges of fidelity, and 
marriage contracts; for there is an excess by the 

ratio of many crimes. And its being on the very 6. Those 
spot where criminals receive punishment ; which pee ee 
they do who bear false witness ; for where would he o¢ ‘hints 
not be ready to act wrong, if at least he does so even ment. 

in the judgment hall‘? Those deeds too on which 

shame is most especially felt. Also if the party has 

injured him at whose hands he has been benefited: 

for he is guilty in more than one way, both in that 

he does him wrong, and in that he did not good to 

him. Also the man who has violated the unwritten 7. Viola- 
principles of right; for it belongs to a man of supe- pect ne 
rior excellence to be just unconstrainedly ; now what 

is of written prescript is done of necessity, but not so 

what is unwritten. Taking it in another way, it is a 

feature of aggravation if it be in violation of written and writ- 
law ; for you may say, the man who is unjust in mat- τα ἊΝ 
ters where is room for apprehending punishment, and 

on which loss attends, surely would be likely to be 


4 Among the aggravations of affrays by the law of England 
one is, ““ Where a respect for the particular place ought to re- 
strain and regulate men’s behaviour, more than in common 
ones; as in the king’s court, and the like.” Blackstone, b. 
iv.c 11, ὃ 


1. ἄτεχνοι 
πίστεις. 


2. Fivein 
number. 


3. i. Laws. 


4. Argu- 
ments for 
the orator 
to whom 
the writ- 
ten law 

is op- 
posed. 


94 ARISTO1 LE’S _ [BOOK L 


unjust in respect of matters on which no loss is con 
sequent. Thus, then, the greater and less degrees of 
injustice have been treated of. 


CHAP. XV. 
Respecting Proofs originating independently of Art. 


It comes next to the subject just treated of, for me 
to run over the proofs which are called inartificial ; 
because these are peculiar to judicial oratory'. And 
they are five in number, viz. laws, witnesses, deeds, 
torture, oaths. 

First, then, let me speak of Laws, in what way 
an orator, in exhorting or dissuading, and in accus- 
ing or defending, is to turn them to his purpose. 
Because it is plain, that if the written law be op- 
posed to his case, he must avail himself of the uni- 
versal law, and of topics of equity, as more absolutely 
just : and he must argue that, really “‘to act to the 
best of his judgment ?,” is to decline an implicit adher- 
ence to written prescript : he must insist, moreover, 


- that. equity remains for ever, and varies not at any 
* time, neither does the universal law, for this is in 


conformity to nature ; but that the written law does 
frequently vary ; whence it was said in the Antigone 


1 He here apologizes for his violation of the proposed ar- 
rangement, in treating of the ἀτέχναι πίστεις, before he has 
fully despatched the ἐντέχναι. In fact, the former class of 
πίστεις are so nearly confined to judicial, that their introduc- 
tion, though a little out of place, as an appendix to the subject 
of judicial rhetoric, is very appropriate. Not, however, but that 
πίστεις of this class may be available in deliberative oratory ; 
and indeed Aristotle himself seems to hint as much in using 
the words προτρέποντα καὶ ἀποτρέποντα (expressions peculiar 
to deliberation), as well as κατηγοροῦντα καὶ ἀπολογούμενον, 


2 The judges were bound by oath, first, to an adherence to 
the laws, and in cases unrecognised by law, to exercise their 
best judgment, (γνώμη ἡ apiorn:) this, as Aristotle here ob 
serves, left grounds for the appeal of an orator. 


"CHAP χυ RHE1ORIC. 95 


of Sophocles ; for she is defending herself because 
she acted in opposition to the law of Creon, but not 
in opposition to the universal law’, “for these are 
not of this or of the next day merely, but ever exist ; 
their prescript would I, not for the sake of any one, 
——.” He must insist, also, that justice is some- 
thing substantially true and expedient, but not so 
that mere seeming of justice, so that neither is the 
written law, for it does not the duty of law. And 
that the judge is, as it were, an assay-master, that 
he may distinguish between counterfeit and real 
ideas of justice. And that it is the part of a better 
man to employ and abide by the unwritten law than 
the written. He should also observe, if the law 
which stands in his way be at variance with any ap- 
proved law, or be itself at variance with itself; thus 
sometimes one law directs that whatever men shall 
have covenanted should be valid ; another forbids that 
they should covenant any thing contrary to the law. 
Observe, also, whether it be equivocal, so that you 
may wrest it to your purpose, and discover to which 
construction either justice or expediency will best 
adjust itself; then let him avail himself of that law. 
And if the circumstances under which the law was 
enacted be no longer remaining‘, but the law itself 
is remaining, he should endeavour to make this clear, 
and battle against it on this ground. But should the 
written law be in favour of his case, the orator then 
must state that “the best of one’s judgment” is in- 


serted, not for the sake of a judge’s deciding contrary © 


to the law, but in order that, if he be ignerant of 
what the law directs, he may not forswear himself. 
He should insist also, that no one chooses good in the 
abstract, but what is so to himself; and that there is 
no difference between a law not enacted and one not 
put in force. And he should observe that, in other 
arts, it advantages not for one to indulge himself in 
such over-wisdom ; as, for example, in respect of a 


+ Already quoted in chap. 13, ᾧ 2. 
* Vide the arguments adduced in favour of Catholic emane 
ipation. 


8. 


13. 2nd. 
On wit- 
nesses, 
which 
are two- 
fold. 

i. παλαι- 
οἱ. 

ii. πρό- 
σφατοι. 


14. Wit- 
nesses of. 
the future 
are sooth- 
sayers. 
Proverbs 
are wit- 
nesses. 


96 ARISTOTLE’S [BooK κα 


physician ; for there the errors of his physician do 
not so greatly hurt a man, as the habituating himself 
to disobey him who has the direction of his health. 
And that the seeking to be wiser than the law, is the 
very thing which in well-approved laws is prohi- 
bited. And on the subject of laws let such be our 
distinctions. 

But to the subject of Witnesses: witnesses are 
twofold, some ancient, others modern ὅ, and of these 
some are partners in the risk, others are uninvolved 
in it. I mean by ancient witnesses, both poets and 
all other illustrious persons whose decisions are open 
to the world; as, for example, the Athenians em- 
ployed Homer as their witness in the matter of 
Salamis; and the people of Tenedos but recently 
employed Periander the Corinthian, against the 
people of Sigeum; Cleophon, also, employed the 
Elegies of Solon against Critias, saying, that the 
family of old time was a dissolute one, for Solon 
would never otherwise have said, “ Go, bid my 
Critias, with his yellow locks, to listen to his father.” 
Such, then, are the witnesses on the subject of the 
past. But, respecting the future, we have also 
soothsayers ; thus Themistocles insisted that they 
were to engage by sea, alleging the expression the 
wooden wall®. Moreover, proverbs also are testi- 
monies, according to what has been stated above’; 
as, if one were going to advise another not to make 
an old man his friend, the proverb testifies to that 
point, “Never benefit an old man ;” also as to the 
taking off the children whose parents one has slain, 
“Foolish is he who having slain the father shall 


5 IIpdcparor seems to imply viva voce witnesses, those from 
whom oral testimony may be gained, and perhaps for that 
reason applied to signify modern in general. 

6 See Herodotus, Polymnia, 143. 

7 That is, according to his declaration that any known de- 
cisions of illustrious persons might be of service in proof. 
Now proverbs have the advantage of being universally knows, 
and are acquiesced in by all as the decisions of mien of 
prudence at least. Vater explains the passage differently. 
vid. Animady. 


CHAP. Xv.| RHETORIC. 97 


ieave the son behind*’.” Modern witnesses are 15. Mo- 
all those people of note who have passed an opi- ee 
nion on any point; for these their opinions are partake of 
useful to those who are debating on the same ques- the risk, 
tions ; as Eubulus, for instance, in the trial against 

Chares, availed himself of that saying of Plato, in 
reference to Archibius, that ‘the avowal of being 

wicked has gained ground in the city.” Also those 

who participate the risk, should they appear to falsify. 
Witnesses, however, of this class, prove merely such 16. and 
points as these; whether the fact has or has not pags μίας 
taken place ; whether it be in existence or not; but g¢4. 

as to the further question of its character, they are not 

at all witnesses ; on the questions, for instance, whe- 

ther a thing be just or unjust, expedient or preju- 

dicial. But witnesses who are at a distance? are 17. 
very credible, even touching questions of this nature. 

But ancient witnesses are of supreme credibility !°, Mest an- 
because they are beyond the reach of corruption. 6" ei 
But in reference to testimony the following may be dible. 
adduced as confirmations of proof, by the orator, Argu- 
namely, who has no witnesses: it should be insisted ee 
that the judge ought to decide from probabilities, μας no 
and that this is the spirit of his oath, “to the best witnesses: 
of his judgment.” Let him also say that it is im- 
possible to lead probability astray on the score of 
money; and that probability never is detected bear- 

ing false testimony. But it must be urged by him and for 
who has witnesses, against him who has them not, Rise who 
that neither is probability amenable to trial; and το 
that there would be no need at all of offering testi- 

mony, if it were enough to consider matters on the 

ground of reasonings only. And testimony is partly 18. Testi 


8 Vid. Herodot. i. 155. Cyrus is apprehensive of constant ee 


annoyance if he should not enslave the Lydians :---ὁμοίως γάρ 
μοι νῦν ye φαίνομαι πεποιηκέναι, ὡς εἴ τις πατέρα ἀποκτείνας, 
τῶν παίδων αὐτοῦ aot 

® By the oi ἄπωθεν he should seem to imply both οἱ παλαιοὶ, 
and οἱ ἐκτὸς πρόσφατοι" the first removed by time, the last by 
their being unconcerned in the present question, which may be 
considered in one sense as a distance in puint of interest at least. 

© TO ἐκ ποδῶν οὔτ᾽ αντιπίπτει Kai τετίμηται ἀφθόνων, 


Gregor. Naz. ἐν Στιχ. Hooker, vol. ii. p. 26. 
H 


vither for 
one’s self 
or the ad- 
versary. 


19 


. 


90. 
ord. 
Deeds. 


21. To be 
treated as 
witnesses. 
Argu- 
ments for 
him who 
has them 
on his 
side. 


98 ARISTOTLE’S ' BOOK 1. 


in reference to one’s self, partly in reference to the 
adversary ; partly to fact, partly to moral character. 
Insomuch that it is plain that we can never be at a 
loss for testimony to suit our purpose; for if there 
be not at hand any such testimony, bearing on the 
case itself, as is either admitted on our own part, or 
opposed to our adversary, we still may have enough, 
bearing on the subject of moral character, with a 
view either to our own excellence of character, or 
our adversary’s depravity. Whatever else we allege 
on the subject of witnesses, as to their being friendly, 
inimical, or indifferent, of good character, or bad, or 
neither particularly, and whatever other distinctions 
of this kind there happen to be, must be alleged from 
the same places out of which we adduce enthymems. 

But on the subject of Deeds, pleading is useful so 


~ far as regards enhancing or depreciating their au- 


thority, or showing them to be valid, or void ; in show- 
ing, if they exist on your own side, that they are de- 
serving credit and valid ; if, however, they be on your 
adversary’s side, in showing the contrary. Now in 
order to set them out as deserving credit or undeserv- 
ing it, there is no difference from the process respect- 
ing witnesses. For of whatever characters those who 
have subscribed, or had the custody" of the deeds, 
happen to be, of the same authority will the deeds 
themselves also be. When, however, the deeds are 
acknowledged to have been made, we must, in case 
they be on our side, aggrandize their authority ; for 
a deed is law, private and particular !*, And deeds 


‘! Thus it is one of the arguments in favour of the validity of 
the prophecies of our Saviour’s coming, that they are con- 
tained in books of which the Jews, who are the enemies of 
Christianity, had the custody. See Horne’s Sermon on “ The 
case of the Jews.’’ 

12 Law is essentially distinguished from deeds or private 
compacts, in that it is a rule; “for a compact is a promise 
rreceeding from us, law is a command directed fo us. The 
language of a compact is, ‘I will, or will not, do this ;’ that of 
a iaw is, ‘ Thou shalt, or shalt not, do it.” It is true there is 
an obligation which a compact carries with it, equal in point 
of conscience to that of a law; but then the original of the 
obligation is different. In compacts we ourselves determine 


OMAP. στ ἢ RHETORIC. 99 


do not make valid the law, but the law makes valid 
those deeds which are conformable to law. And, in 
short, the law is itself a sort of deed ; so that who- 
ever casts discredit on, or does away deeds, does away, 
in fact, with law. Moreover the greater part of the 
bargains of men, and their voluntary transactions, are 
carried on by means of deeds: so that if these become 
invalid, the intercourse of mankind with each other 
is subverted. And it is easy enough to discover what 
other topics are adapted to the purpose. But should 
the deeds be opposed to you, and on the side of your 
adversary, these arguments will be to your purpose : 
—first, those with which one would contend against 
a law which made against him; for it is absurd if we 
think we are not bound to obey the laws, unless well 
enacted, and if the legislators have been guilty of mis- 
taking their point, but yet hold it necessary to abide 
by mere deeds. Next to argue that the judge is an 
arbiter of what is just, that he ought therefore to re- 
gard, not the matter of the deed, but something par- 
taking more of justice. And that it is not possible to 
alter what is just, either by fraud or force ; for it has 
an existence in the nature of things!*: deeds, how- 
ever, are made both by persons who are imposed on, 
and those who are compelled to make them. Observe, 
moreover, whether it be in opposition to any written 
law, or any universal principle of right, and to the 
principles of justice and honour; whether again it 
be opposed to other later or earlier deeds; for either 
the later are valid, and the earlier invalid ; or the 
earlier are correct, and the later have been obtained 


- by stratagem ; urging whichever of these cases may 


happen to suit the purpose. Have an eye moreover 
to the matter of expediency, whether the deed stand 
in any respect in the way of the judges, and every 
other such consideration, for these may also be easily 
discovered. 


and promise what shall be done, before we are obliged to do 
it; in laws we are obliged to act without ourselves determining 
or promising any thing at all.”” Blackstone, Comment. Introd- 
§ 2, p. 45. 13 Vid. Ethics. 

; H 2 


23, Argu 

ments for 
him who 

has them 

not on his 
side. 


24. 


26, 

4th. Tor- 
ture a 
kind of 


evidence. 


When on 
our side. 


When 
against 
us, 


2. 
6th. 
Oaths; a 
four-fold 
division 
made. 

u 
li. 
lil. 

iv. 


23. 
i. When 
the orator 
refuses to 
tender 
tke oath. 


100 ARISTOTLE’S - Laoor ἵ, 


Torture is a xind of evidence, and appears to carry 


with it absolute credibility, because a kind of con- 


straint is applied. Now, it is not at all difficult re- 
specting this to discern those considerations which 
the cause admits of, and to set them forth; out of 
which, should the torture be on our side, it is possi- 
ble to enhance its value, by insisting that of all evi 
dence this alone is true. Should it be, however, op 
posed to us, and on the side of our adversary, one 
may do away with the very truth, by declaiming 
against every sort of torture; for that men, when 
constrained, speak falsehood no less than truth, and 
will persist in not speaking the truth; and will easily 
falsify, as being likely the sooner to get off:'4 and 
one ought to have it in his power to allege, over and 
above all these considerations, some actual instances, 
which the judges are acquainted with, besides topics 
such as I have described, , 

On the subject of oaths we may make a four-fold 
division ; for a party either tenders an oath, and ac- 
cepts it; or he does neither ; or he does the one, and 
not the other; that is, he either tenders, but does 
not accept it; or accepts, but does not tender it.!9 
Moreover, it may happen in a different way from this 
still, supposing the oath to have been previously 
taken by this or that party. 

1. Now, an advocate does not tender an oath on 
the ground that men easily forswear themselves ; and 
because the other party will take it, and never repay ; 
but that he is of opinion that the judges, if his ad- 


4 The Pandects (lib. xlviii. tit. xviii.) contain the senta- 
ments of the most eminent civilians on the subject of torture 
They confine it to slaves; and Ulpian acknowledges, ti’ 
** Res est fragilis, et periculosa, et que veritatem fallet.’’ 

1° However strangely this wrangling for the administration 
of oaths may sound, at the present day, when they are uni- 
formly insisted on, yet in the early periods of our own history 
the evidence for accused persons against the king could not be 
examined on oath,—nor till the reign of Anne could any one 
accused of felony produce witnesses on oath. Edin. Review, 
No. Ixxxix. Art. 3, p. 79, 80. It was not till so late as the 
reign of Anne, that the English courts were authorized to ad- 
minister an oath to persons called by a prisoner on his defence. 


CHAP. XV.4 RHETORIC. 101 


versary does not take the oath, will give a verdict 
against him: that he esteems the risk which depends 
on the judges the preferable one, for in them he re- 
poses confidence, but in his adversary, none. 

2. But an advocate declines accepting it on the 
ground of its being an oath for a pecuniary object ; 
and because, if he were a worthless fellow, he would 
forswear himself without more ado; since it were 
better surely to be a villain for some object, rather 
than for none; for if he but take the oath, he will 
gain his cause, if he decline taking it, he will not. 
Thus, then, his not taking it will be from virtuous 
motives, not from fear of forswearing himself; here, 
too, the saying of Xenophanes is in point, viz. that 
this sort of appeal, made by an impious man to a 
pious, is not fair, but is just such an one, as if a ro- 
bust fellow were to challenge an infirm man, either 
to strike him, or to get beaten himself. 

3. If, however, he accepts it, the advocate alleges 
that he feels confidence in himself, but none in his 
adversary. Let him also declare, inverting the saying 
of Xenophanes, that it is fair enough if the impious 
man tenders the oath, and the pious man takes it; 
also, that it is surely a strange thing that a man 
should be unwilling Aimself to take an oath, in a 
question about which he calls on the Judges to give 
their verdict on oath. 

4. If, however, he fenders the oath, let him insist 
that a willingness to intrust the question to the gods 


is a matter of piety; and that his adversary need ; 


call on no other judges, since he throws the decision 
of the case into his own hands; and that an unwill- 
ingness to take an oath, in a question about which 
he calls upon other people to swear, is absurd. 

Now, as it is thus plain how we are to speak in 
reference to each [of the four simple cases], it will 
also be plain how we are to speak when taking them 
conjointly ; supposing, for instance, either that your- 
self are willing to take the oath, but not to tender it; 
or, if you tender it, but are not willing to take it; or 
if you are inclined both to take it and to tender : £3 


29. 
li. When 
he refuses 
to accept 
it. 


30. 

iii. When 
he accepts 
it. 


31. 

iv. When 
he tenders 
it. 


32. Argu- 
ments for 
the same 

taken con 
jointly. 


Argu- 
ments if 
any pre- 
vious oath 
has been 
taken, 


33. Per- 
jury. 


102 ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. [Book ὃ 


or to do neither; for these cases must be made up of 
those above mentioned, so that our reasonings must 
also be made up of those above stated. 

But if a former oath, and that contradictory of 
your present, has been taken by yourself, you have 
to make out that it is not perjury; for injustice is 
essentially voluntary, and perjury is injustice; but 
that which is done under constraint, or deceit, is 
involuntary, [and therefore not unjust.] Here then 
we may introduce the saying about perjury, viz. 
“that it is a thing not of the tongue, but of the 
mind.” If, however, an oath of this description shall 
have been taken by your adversary, declare, “ that 
he who abides not by what he has sworn to, subverts 
every thing which is established ; for this is the rea- 
son that judges administer the law only on oath:” 
exclaim, too, “that these men are calling on you, 
judges, to abide by those oaths, by virtue of taking 
which you give your verdict ; and do they not them- 
selves abide by them?” And whatever else one may 
allege in way of amplification. So much, then, for 
the subject of proof not originated by art. 


BOOK If. 


CHAP. Ff. 


The necessity of investing the Judge with a favourable 
feeling. 


THe materials, then, from which we must exhort 
and dissuade, praise and blame, accuse and defend, 
the notions also and propositions, useful in order to 
render these points credible, are those [which we 
have discussed]: for respecting these questions, and 
out of these sources, are.enthymems deduced, so that 
an orator, thus provided, may speak on each separate 
department of questions. But as rhetoric has in 
view the coming to a decision (for in deliberative 
oratory, the assembly arrive at decisions; and the 
sentence of a court of justice is ipso facto a decision) ; 
it is necessary to look not only to your speech, in 
what way that will be of a character to convince and 
persuade, but also to invest yourself with a certain 
kind of character, and the judge with a certain kind 
of feeling. For it isa point of great consequence, 
particularly in deliberative! cases ; and, next to these, 
in judicial; as well that the speaker seem to be a man 
of a certain character, as that his audience conceive 
him to be of a certain disposition toward themselves; 
moreover it is of consequence if your audience chance 

to be themselves also disposed in a certain way. 


1 Those subjects about which deliberative oratory is con- 
cerned, least of all admit any thing like absolute certainty, for 
we can only form conjectures of what will be from what has 
been; and Aristotle has already told us, “ that men lend a 
readier and more implicit belief to the good on all questions 
whatsoever; but on those whose nature precludes our arriving 
at certainty, but compels us to remain in doubt, we reiy en- 
Grely on them.” Book i. chap. ii. § 4. 


1. Diseus- 

sion of the 

πίστις ἐν 
~ »¥ 

τῷ ἤθει 

τοῦ λέ- 

γοντον. 


δ. Three 
requisites 
for the 
orator’s 
gaining 
belief. 

i. φρόνη- 
σις. 

il. ἀρετή. 
ili, εὔνοια. 


1. The 


104 ARISTOTLE’S | BooK 11. 


. Now, as to a speaker’s appearing to be himself of a 


certain character, this point is more available in de- 
liberations: but the disposing the auditor in a certain 
way, in judicial cases ; for things do not show them- 
selves in the same light to persons affected by love 
and by hatred, nor to those under emotions of anger, 
as to those who are disposed to placability; but they 
appear either utterly different in character, or at least 
different in degree. or to a judge who is affected 
by love toward the party respecting whom he pro- 
nounces his decision, that party appears either not at 
all to be unjust, or to be so in a very trivial degree. 
To a judge, however, who is affected by hatred, the 
case has a contrary appearance. So also to a person 
who is eager and sanguine, the proposed object, if 
pleasant, takes the appearance, as well of being likely 
to accrue, as of being likely to prove really a good ; 
while by one who is indifferent and reluctant, the 
opposite view is taken. 

Now, there are three causes of a speaker’s deserv- 
ing belief; for so many in number are the qualities 
on account of which we lend our credit, independent- 
ly of proof adduced; and these are prudence, moral 
excellence, and the having our interests at heart?; 
(for men are fallacious in what they allege or advise 
by reason, either of all, or some, of these causes; for 


6. either, from want of ability, they do not rightly ap- 


prehend the question; or, rightly apprehending it, 
from their depravity, they do not tell you what they 
think; or, being men both of ability and moral ex- 
cellence, they have not your interests at heart, on 
which account it is possible they should not give you 
the best advice, though fully known what is best ;) 
and besides these there is no other: it follows there- 
fore, of course, that the speaker who appears to pos- 
sess all these qualities, is considered by his audience 
as deserving credit®. Now the means by which men 


2 See Pericles’s defence of himself, Thucyd. ii. 60; and 
above, book i. chap. vili. § 6. 

3 A celebrated scholar of the present day, after having de~ 
scribed the eloquence of Mr. Fox, as remarkably characterized 


CHAP. 1.] RHETORIC, 105 


may appear virtuous and prudent, are to be derived 
from what has been laid down on the subject of the 
virtues ; for it is by help of the very same things, 
that an orator may invest himself, and any one else, 
in a certain character. The subject of feeling an in- 
terest, and of friendliness, must be discussed in my 
treatise of the passions, commencing henceforth. 
Passions‘ however are, all emotions whatsoever, on 
which pain and pleasure are consequent, by whose 
operation, undergoing a change, men differ in respect 
to their decisions: for instance, anger, pity, fear, 
and whatever other emotions are of such a nature, 
and those opposed to them. But it will be fitting to 
divide what I have to say, respecting each, into three 
considerations ; to consider, respecting anger, for ex- 
ample, how those who are susceptible of anger are 
affected ; with whom they usually are angry; and 
on what occasions. For, granted that we be in pos- 
session of one, or even two of these points, and not 
of them all, it will be impossible for us to kindle 
anger in the breast ; and in the case of the rest of the 
passions in a similar way. In the same way, then, 
as on the subjects treated of above I have separately 
drawn up the several propositions, so let me do in re- 
spect of these also, and make my distinctions ac- 
cording to the manner specified. 


CHAP. II. 
Persons agamst whom Anger is felt, and by whom, and why. 


Let anger be defined! to be “a desire accompanied 
by pain of a revenge which presents itself, on ac- 


by πέστις ἠθικὴ, proceeds thus—*‘ Hac de causa, quos audienti 
mihi motus adhibere voluit, illi semper in animo oratoris im- 


two first 
discussed 
before. 


8. The 
latter to 
be known 
by the 
emotions, 
which 
must 
therefore 
be con- 
sidered. 


9. The 
discussion 
is divided. 
into three 
heads in 
every in- 
stance, 

i. 

ii, 


1. Anger 
defin 


pressi et inusti esse videbantur.”” Parr’s Pref. to Bellenden, . 


Ρ. 12, edit. 1787. 

4 The definition, given more briefly in the Ethics, is “ ols 
ἕπεται ἡδονὴ ἢ λύπη." Eth. Nich. ii. 5. 

1 Ὄρεξις ἀντιλυπήσεως. Eth, Nich. 


2. Anger 
is felt 
ainst 
tie indi- 
vidual, 
not the 
species, 


Is attend- 
ed with 
pleasure, 


3. We 
feel anger 
on ac- 
count of a 
supposed 
slight. 


Three 
species of 
ὀλιγωρία. 
i, κατα- 
φρόνησις, 
ii, ἐπηρε- 
aoucs. 
iii. ἕβρις. 
4 


106 ARISTOTLE’S [Book It. 


count of an apparent slight from persons acting to- 
ward one’s self, or some of one’s friends, unbecom- 
ingly.” Now, if anger be this, it must be that he 
who is affected by anger, is so affected invariably to- 
wards some individual (for instance, towards Cleon), 
but not towards mankind, generally: and this, be- 
cause the individual has already wrought some indig- 
nity, either on himself or some of his friends, or in- 
tends doing so. It must be also that there is a sort 
of pleasure consequent on all anger, arising out of 
the hope of avenging one’s self*; for the idea of at- 
taining what one desires is pleasant; and no one is 
desirous of objects which appear impracticable to him; 
and he who is under the affection of anger is desirous 
of objects which appear practicable to him. Where- 
fore it has been happily remarked of anger, that it is, 
“Far, far too dear to every mortal breast, 
Sweet to the soul, as honey to the taste*.”’ 
Because a sort of pleasure is consequent on it, as well 
on this account, as because men linger in thought on 
compassing revenge. Now the phantasy which then 
arises excites a pleasure within us, as do the phanta- 
sies of dreams. But as a slight is the operation of an 
opinion conceived of an object which appears not 
worth consideration (for we esteem things absolutely 
bad, and those which are good, and what conduces to 
them, to be worth some consideration; that however 
which is mere nothing, or absolutely trivial, we con- 
ceive worth none). There are three species of slight, 
contempt, vexatiousness, and contumely: for he who 
manifests contempt is guilty of a slight, since men 
contemn whatever they think worth nothing, and . 
what is worth nothing, they slight. Again, he who 
is vexatious appears to contemn, for vexatiousness is 


. a thwarting another’s wishes, not that any thing may 


accrue to the person himself who so impedes, but in 


2 Compare lib. i. c. xi. § 9, οὐδεὶς yap ὀργίζεται τῷ ἀδὺυ- 
νάτῳ, K.T. 

: Compare. book i. chap. xi. § 13; and also book i. chap. x 
§17. This is expressed in the Ethics, lib. iii. c. viii. Kai οἱ 
ἄνθρωποι δὴ ὀργιζόμενοι μὲν ἀλγοῖϊσι, esas poco δ᾽ ἥδονται, 

4 Pope’s translation of Homer. 


CHA?, τι.} RHETORIC. 107 


order that something may not accrue to that other. 
Since, then, he slights not with a view to any ad- 
vantage to himself, it is plain that he conceives you 
can neither hurt him, (for, if he did, he would be 
afraid, and would not be guilty of slight,) nor can 
benefit him in any respect worth mentioning, since 
he would otherwise hold you in consideration, in order 
to become your friend.® He, too, who acts contume- 
liously manifests slight; for contumely is the doing 
and saying those things about which the person who 
is the subject of this treatment, has feelings of deli- 
cacy, not with a view that any thing should accrue 
to himself, other than what arises to him in the act, 
but in order that he may be gratified ; for they who 
requite an injury, do not act contumeliously, but take 
revenge. Now the cause of the pleasure felt by those 
who act contumeliously, is that, by injuring, they 
conceive themselves to be more decidedly superior : 
on which account young men and the rich are given 
to contumely, for in manifesting the contumely, they 
conceive themselves superior. To contumely belongs 
the withholding of respect; but he who withholds 
respect, manifests slight ; for that which is of no 
value, is held in no consideration, either good or bad. 
On which principle Achilles, in his anger, says, “ He 
hath withheld from me respect, for he hath seized 
and possesses my prize himself, having taken it from 
me.” And again, “ Like some unregarded vaga- 
bond ;” as though he were, on this account, affected 


5, 


by anger. Now people think it becoming that they 7. 


should be looked up to by their inferiors, whether 
in birth, power, or moral excellence, or generally 
speaking, in whatever respect one may happen to be 


5 It is an essential feature of vexatiousness, and in fact of 
every species of slight, that there is a total absence of any self- 
ish motive on the part of him who offers it ; the appearance of 
any such motive having actuated him, would be a salvo to the 
pride of him who is made the subject of such treatment; but 
to be exposed to an opinion that one is utterly beneath con- 
sideration (δόξα περὶ τὸ μηδενὸς ἄξιον φαινόμενον), is a reflec- 
tion to which no person, actuated by the common feelings of 
our nature, ever can submit. 


9. With 
what feel- 
ings, and 
how situ- 
ated, men 
are angry. 


10. 


108 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 1, 


much superior: thus the rich man thinks to be looked 
up to by the poor, in regard to money; also the man 
who has a faculty of speaking, by him who is desti- 
tute of it, in the case of speaking ; and he who thinks 
himself worthy to bear office, by him who deserves 
to be subject to rule. Whence it has been said, 
‘“‘ Beware ! for dreadful is the wrath of kings ;”’ 
and in another place, 
**Tis sure the mighty will revenge at last :” 


for they feel indignant by reason of their superiority. 


- Moreover [men think it becoming that they should 


be looked up to] by those at whose hands they think 
they ought to receive good; and these are such as 
they have benefited, or continue to benefit, whether 
in their own persons, or as instruments of any one, 
and whom any of their relatives have benefited, or 
wish, or did wish to benefit. 

1. From hence it is by this time manifest both un- 
der what affections as regards themselves, and with 
what objects, and for what reasons, men feel anger. 
For as regards themselves, it is when they happen to 
be aggrieved, since he who is aggrieved is anxious 
for something. Now aman [ will feel thus aggrieved ], 
as well on any person’s clashing with him in regard 
to any object, directly; when he is thirsty, for exam- 
ple, in regard to drinking: as also should they not 
directly clash, yet will he appear to do the same thing ; 
and if a person thwarts, or does not co-operate with 
one, and if a person annoys one in any respect, when 
thus circumstanced, one feels anger against all these. _ 
On which account people who are ill, in poverty, love, 
thirst, in a word, who are under desire, and fail of 
success, these all are fretful and irritable, and parti- 
cuiarly with those who slight their present condition : 
the sick man, for example, is annoyed by those who > 
slight him in regard to his disease: the poor man too, 
with those who do so in regard to his poverty ; and 
the warrior, in regard to war ; the lover, in regard to 
love; and in other cases similarly, for each one has 
the way paved to the feeling anger in each vase, by 


CHAP, RHETORIC. too 


the passion which exists in his mind. Again, a man 
is nettled should he happen to be expecting the very 
opposite of what results; for that pains one more 
deeply which falls out very unexpectedly ; just in the 
same ratio as that which is very unexpected de- 
lights, should it be what one wishes for. On which 
account seasons, times, dispositions, and ages, which 
class of them are readily excited to anger, and when, 
and how, wil) be plain from this which I have said ; 
also it will be plain that they are then excited with 
greater readiness, when more immediately influenced 
by these circumstances. As then regards the persons 
themselves, under these dispositions it is that they 
are readily excited to anger. 

2. But people feel anger towards those who laugk 
at them excessively, and gibe, and scoff at them, for 
these treat them with contumely ; with such also as 
hurt them in all particulars, of such a nature as are 
tokens of contumely : these of course must be such as 
neither are in requital for any thing, or beneficial to 
those who are the agents ὃ; for this is enough to make 
it appear to be an act solely of contumely: towards 
those also who underrate and despise what themselves 
take a warm interest in; thus all those who are fond 
of philosophy, are angry if any one undervalues phi- 
losophy ; so, too, they who embrace the notion of an 
universal idea’, are nettled if a person despises the 
doctrine ; and as regards other things in a similar 
manner. But all this will be felt much more keenly, 
if these persons suspect that the qualities so under- 
rated do not really belong to them, or not completely, 
or not firmly, or that they do not appear to belong to 
them ; since, if they conceive themselves to be very 
strong in the points on which they happen to be ral- 
lied, they do not regard it*, and anger is felt to- 

§ Here also Aristotle maintains the absolute exclusion of any 
thing like self-interest as characteristic of this species of ὀλι- 
γωρία. See note on the last chapter. 

7 Alluding to Plato’s doctrine of ideas, which Aristotle him- 
self so warmly controverted. See Eth. Nich. i. 6. 


§ See chap. iv. § 14, where he says, we are fond of those 
who praise us on points where we esteem ourselves weak. 


11. 


15 


16. 


17 


18, 


19, 


21. 


To- 


110 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 11. 


wards friends, in a greater degree than towards such 
as are not friends ; because people conceive it to be 
more fitting to receive good at their hands than not: 
also towards those who have "θη in the habit of 
honouring or bestowing consideration on them, if, 
on the contrary, they do not keep on the same terms 
with them ; because people conceive themselves de- 
spised by them, for otherwise they would do as be- 
fore. ‘Towards those also who do not requite a kind 

ness, or who do not return an equivalent, towards 
those also who thwart them, if they be inferiors ; for 
these all appear to despise them, the latter as though 
they were their inferiors, the former as though [the 
kindness had been received] from inferiors. Men 
feel it also in a greater degree towards persons of no 
account, should they slight them; for anger is sup- 
posed to arise from a slight, and to exist towards 
persons whose conduct misbecame them ; now it be- 
comes inferiors to make no manifestation of slight. 
Towards friends, anger is felt if they do not or speak 
not well ; and still more so if they do the contrary; 
also if they should not perceive us to be in want, 
just as the Plexippus® of Antipho was angry with 
Meleager; for not to perceive this is a token of 
slight, since in regard to those for whom we feel 


. deference, this does not escape our notice: towards 


those also it is felt who exult in their misfortunes ; 
and, in a word, towards such as are in good spirits 
amid their misfortunes ; for this marks either a foe, 
or one who manifests slight: towards those also who 
do not care if they give us pain; wherefore, men feel 
anger towards those who announce evil tidings. 
Against those also is anger felt who either readily 
listen to, or scrutinize our failings ; for they resemble 
persons who slight us, or who are our enemies ; since 
a friend sympathizes with one, and all men, as their 
peculiar failings are scrutinized, feel pain. More- 


9 Plexippus was a brother of Althea, Meleager’s mother, 
and a character in a play of Antipho’s, now lost. 
10 And the first bringer of unwelcome news 
Hath but a losing office. Shakspeare. 


“Map. 116] RHETORIC. nl 


over men feel anger towards those who slight them wards 
in the presence of five descriptions of persans, viz. in eis 
the presence of those whom they emulate, whom they pratt be 
admire, by whom they are desirous of being ad- fore per 

: . . . sons of 
mired, in whose presence they are alive to delicacy % 46. 
of feeling, and before those who have a delicacy of scriptions, 
feeling towards them; if before these any one should i. Whom 
slight them, they feel anger more sensibly: with ‘ey em™™ 
those also do men feel angry who slight them in such ii. Whom 
respects, as it is disgraceful for them not to stand up they ad- 
in defence of ; in regard to parents, for instance, or ii. By 
children, wives, or persons in subjection: with those, whom _ 
too, who make no return of favours; for the slight pa ite 
then is contrary to what is becoming: and with those mired. 
who play off sarcasms upon them when seriously en- iv. Before 
gaged ; for sarcasm has an air of contempt: also with es aie 
those who benefit others, if they do not also benefit sensible of 
them; since this also carries an air of contempt, the paar aa 
not thinking them worthy what all are worthy of. + °-3ore 
Also the letting a man escape our memory is a thing those who 
very apt to provoke anger; for example, the nearly ae 
forgetting even his name, since forgetfulness seems of feeling 
to be an indication of slight; because forgetfulness towards 
arises from disregard, and disregard is a kind of 53°™ 
slight. Now, it has been told you against whom men 24. 
feel anger, and under what dispositions, and why!!. = 
It evidently will be needful for an orator to work up 97, 
his audience by his speech, into such a frame of mind 
as that under which men are prone to anger, and his 
adversary, too, as being obnoxious to that on account 
of which men feel anger, and as being such an one 88 


people feel anger against. 
41 Vide this chapter, ᾧ 3, 


1.2 ARISTOTLE’S. [Book 1 


CHAP. III. 


The Persons susceptible of Placability, also those towards 
whom, and the occasions on which τέ is felt. 


1. As the feeling anger is the opposite of being ap- 
peased, and anger itself of placability, we must as- — 
certain with what dispositions men are placable, 
towards whom they are thus affected, and by what 

2 Placa- means they are appeased. Let placability, then, be 

es de- defined to be “‘asubsiding and appeasementof anger !.” 
3 To. Now, if men feel anger towards those who slight 
wards _ them, and if slight be voluntary, it is plain that they 
ee are placable in regard to those who do no such thing, 
placable, OF who either do so, or appear to do so, involuntarily :. 

4, towards those also who wish the contrary of what 
they do; and those who behave in the same way 
toward themselves also, for no one seems likely him- 

5. There- self to be guilty of slight towards himself. Men 
pentant. are thus disposed also towards such as acknowledge 
and repent of their guilt; for taking their feeling 
of pain for what they have done as a punishment, 
they are appeased :—there is proof of this in the 
case of chastising servants ; for we chastise more vio- 
lently those who contradict us, and deny their guilt; 
but towards such as acknowledze themselves to be 
justly punished, we cease from our wrath”; the rea- 
son of which is, that the denial of what is evident 
is a sort of impudence, and impudence is slight and 
contempt: therefore we are not aliye to sense of 
shame, in regard to those whom we despise very 
6. The much. Men are thus disposed also towards those 
humble. who humble themselyes before them, and do not 


1 This passion, different from all the others, supposes the 
previous existence of another in the mind, the emotions of 
which it may be said to allay more properly, than to be itself 
an emotion. Rochefoucault, Maxim 328. 

2 « A soft answer turneth away wrath.” 

3 See the instance of Ahab’s humiliation of himself, (1 Kinga 
xxi. 27,) and that of the Ninevites, (Jonah iij. 5, etc.,) w 
which we may add David. 


CHAP. 11. ‘RHETORIc. 118 


contradict their imputations ; for they appear to ac- 
knowledge themselves inferior ; but inferiors fear 
us, and no one who fears is guilty of slight. But 
the fact that anger ceases towards such as humble 
themselves, even dogs evince by their not biting 
those who sit as suppliants. Placability is also felt 
towards such as are earnestly attentive, where they 
are themselves attentive; for they think themselves 
regarded with attention, and not despised: towards 
such as [subsequently to their manifesting slight] 
have gratified us in more important points, and with 
those who implore us, and deprecate our anger; for 
these are more humble: towards those also, who 
are not given to contumely, nor to jeering one; and 
who do not manifest slight towards any one, or to- 
wards those alone who are not good men, and not 
towards such as we ourselves are. In a word, we 
should consider the subject of placability, from the 
opposite of the doctrine of anger. Once more, it is 
felt towards those whom men fear, or have a delicacy 
toward ; for so long as they are thus affected, they 
are not influenced by anger; since it is impossible 
to feel anger and fear at the same time. Again, 
people either do not feel anger at all, or feel it in a 
less degree, towards those who have themselves act- 


7. Those 
who are 
attentive 
to us. 


8. 


ed under the influences of anger ; for these appear’ 


to have acted, not from any motive of slight ; for no 
one who is angry with you slights you ; since slight 
is unattended by pain, anger, however, is so attend- 
ed. ‘Thus are they also disposed towards such as re- 
gard them with respect. 

It is evident, also, that men are placable, when in a 
_ frame of mind contrary to the feeling of anger; thus 
in amusements, in mirth, in festivity, amid rejoicings, 
or a course of success and of gratification, or, in a 
word, when in a state of freedom from pain, and amid 
chastened pleasure and virtuous hope. Those, too, 
who have suffered some time to elapse, and are not 
fresh from the influence of anger; for time makes 
anger cease*. Also vengeance previously taken on 


Cleon was aware of this when he exclaimed against ἃ 


In what 
situations 
men are 
apt to be 
placable, 
and how 
affected. 


13. When 


venge- 
ence has 
deen 
taken. 


14. 


16. 


16. When 
the object 
is insensi- 
bie. 


114 ARISTOTLE [zoox 1. 


one object allays the anger felt against another, even 
if he be more violent. For which reason, Philocrates, 
when some one asked him “ how it was, as the popu- 
lace were enraged with him, that he did not make his 
defence,” very justly said, “I will not do it yet.”— 
“But when will you?”—‘“I will do it, when I see 
some one else criminated.” For people, after they 
have exhausted their anger on some other object, 
become placable ; which happened in the case of Er 

gophilus ; for the populace, though more indignant 
with him than with Callisthenes, yet acquitted him, 
because, on the day before, they had condemned Cal- 
listhenes to death. “Men are thus disposed if they 
have convicted the object, and if he have suffered a 
greater ill than they, with all their anger, would have 
themselves inflicted; for they think they have got- 
ten, as it were, their revenge. Again, if they are 
aware that they are themselves unjust, and suffer de- 
servingly>; because anger is not felt at what is just ; 
for in that case men no longer conceive themselves 
sufferers contrary to what is becoming; but anger 
was defined to be such a feeling. On which account 
we should preface punishment with a sort of lecture ; 
for thus even slaves feel less indignant at being pun 

ished. Moreover they are thus disposed, if they 
conceive that the sufferer will not perceive that he is 
punished by them, and in return for what they have 
have suffered ; for anger is felt against individuals: 


second hearing of the Mitylenweans :---- Θαυμάζω μὲν τῶν χρόνου 
διατριβὴν ἐμποιησάντων, 6 ἐστὶ πρὸς τῶν ἠδικηκότων μᾶλλον. 
ὁ γὰρ παθὼν τῷ δράσαντι ἀμβλυτέρᾳ τῇ ὀργῇ ἐπεξέρχετο".- 
Thucyd. iii. 38. 

Χρόνος γὰρ εὐμαρὴς Feds. Soph. Elec. 179. 


5 Well illustrated in Richard the First’s pardon of Bertrand 
de Gourdon, on his death-bed :—“‘ Wretch,” said the king, 
** what have I ever done to you to oblige you to seek my life ?”’ 
** What have you done to me?” coolly replied the prisoner : 
“you killed, with your own hands, my father and my ‘two 
brothers; and you iniended to have hanged myself,” etc. 
Richard, struck with the reasonableness of this reply, and 
humbled by the near approach of death, ordered Gourdon to 
= set at liberty, and a sum of money to be given to him. 

ume. 


CHAP. 111.} RHETORIC. 115 


and this is plain from the definition. Hence is it 
said in the poem with great propriety, “ Go, say twas 
Ulysses, subverter of cities,” etc.; as though the hero 
had not been revenged, unless Polyphemus perceived 
both by whom®, and in return for what’, he suffered. 
So that men are not angry with any who are no longer 
sensible ; neither any longer with those who are dead 8, 
as being persons who have endured the extremity of 
suffering ; nor with those who will not be susceptible 
of pain, nor feel the punishment inflicted, a point of 
which those affected by anger are desirous. On 
which account the poet, wishing to restrain Achilles 
from his anger against Hector now that he is dead, 
aptly says, “‘In his madness he is vexing a senseless 
clod.” It is evident that arguments must be deduced 
from the topics here furnished, by those who would 
appease their audience; by working up the hearers 
themselves into feelings such as I have described ; 
and those with whom they are enraged, either as ob- 
jects of fear, or as deserving reverence, or as persons 
who have benefited them, or as having been involun- 
tary agents, or as now exceedingly pained at what 
they have done. 


® Thus Gloucester, m Henry VI., 
Down, down to hell, and say—I sent thee thither, etc. 
7 Again, in the Aneid, the hero tells Turnus, 
Pallas te hoc vulnere, Pallas 
Immolat. 
δ Πᾶσα δυσμένεια τῷ βίῳ τούτῳ συναποτίθεται. Synes. 


Quoted in Hooker, v. § 7, vol. ii. p. 26. Compare Byron’s 
tragedy of the Two Foscari, act v. last scene : 

Barsariao (to Loredano).—What art thou writing, 

With such an earnest brow, upon thy tablets ? 
LoREDANO (pointing to the Doge’s body).—That he has patd 
me.* 

9.1; ha ta.” An historical fact; see History of Venice, PF. 

Darus, p. ΜΝ vol. ii, ον "3 


17. How 
we are 
to ap- 
pease the 
audience, 


3. To- 
wards 
whom we 
feel it. 


116 ARISTOTLE’S BOOK 11. 


CHAP. IV. 


The Characters towards whom men entertain friendly feel- 
ings, or hatred ; and the reasons why. 


. LET us y tardies the characters towards whom men 


bear friendly feelings, and hatred, and the reasons 
why they do so; setting out with a definition of 
friendliness and the act of cherishing this feeling. 


i- Let the bearing friendly feeling, then, be defined to 


be “the wishing a person what we think good, for 
his sake and not for our own, and, as far as is in our 
power, the exerting ourselves to procure it.” Anda 
friend is he who entertains and meets a return of this 
feeling.! And those people consider themselves 
friends who consider themselves to stand thus affected 
towards each other. 

These considerations being laid down, of necessity 
it must be, that one who participates in another’s joy 
at good fortune, and in his sorrow at what aggrieves_ 
him, not from any other motive, but simply for his 
sake, is his friend. For every one, when that hap- 
pens which he wishes, rejoices; but when the con- 
trary happens, all are grieved. So that the pain and 
pleasure men feel are an indication of their wishes. 


. Those, too, are friends, to whom the same things are 


become by this time good, and the same evil; those, 
too, who are friends and foes to the same persons, for 
these must necessarily desire similar objects. So 
that he who wishes for another what he does for 
himself, appears to be a friend to that other.- Men 
love also those who have benefited either themselves, 
or those for whom they have a regard; whether in 
important particulars, or with readiness”, and for 
their own sakes, or those whom they deem willing to 


. benefit them. Again, people love the friends of their 


friends, and such as cherish friendly feelings towards 


1 Thus the feeling discussed in the Ethics is called εὔνοια ἐν 
ἀντιπεπονθόσι μὴ λανθάνουσα. Eth. Nich. viii. 2. 
* Bis dat, qui cito dat. 


cap. iv.} HETORIC. 117 


those for whom they do themselves; likewise those 

who are loved by such as are beloved by themselves 5 

those also who are enemies to the same people, and 7. 

who hate those whom they hate themselves, and 

those who are hated by those who also are hated by 
themselves; for to all these the same objects seem 

good as to themselves; so that they wish for things 

which are good to them, both which were laid down 

to be characteristic of a friend. Moreover men love 8. 
those who benefit them in regard to money matters, 

and the security of life; on which account people The brave 
honour the liberal and brave. ‘They love also the ὡς ἢ like: 
just, of which character they esteem those who do 9. The 
not live at the cost of others, such are all who just. 
are supported by their bodily labour, and of these 

are husbandmen, and among the rest handicraftsmen Husband- 
in particular. They love also the temperate, for ™e”- 
they are not unjust; and those who are disengaged ~ 
from business, for the same reason. We love also 11. 
those of whom we wish to become the friends, should 

they appear to desire it also. Of this sort are those 

who are good in respect to moral excellence, and 

men of approved character, either among all men, or 

among the best men, or those who are held in admir- 

ation by ourselves, or who themselves admire us. 

Again, we love those who are pleasant companions 12. Com. 
for passing time, or spending a day with; of this panions, 
description are the good-tempered, and such as are “™ 
not fond of chiding those who err, and are not 
quarrelsome or contentious*. For all people of this 

sort are fond of dispute; but such as are fond of 
dispute give us the idea of desiring the opposite of 


3 The character given by Clarendon of Sir Edward Herbert 
(afterwards Earl of Montgomery), one of the favourites of 
James I., seems to answer to Aristotle’s description of a per- 
son likely to conciliate friendship :—“ He pretended to no 
other qualifications than to understand horses and dogs very 
well; which his master loved him the better for, (being at his 
first coming to England very jealous of those who had the re- 
putation of great parts,) and to be believed honest and gener- 
ous, which made him many friends, and left him no enemy.” 
Clarendon’s History, vol. i. p. 59. 


13. 


14, 


15. Those 
neat in 
ilress. 


16. 


17. The 
forgiving. 


18. 


19. 


21. 


118 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 13 


what we do. Also those who have a happy turn in 
passing and taking a joke; for both seem bent on the 
same things as their neighbours, being able both to 
endure being rallied and neatly rallying others *. 
Men love also those who praise their good qualities, 
and particularly such as they apprehend not to belong 
to them: also those who are neat in their appearance, 
their dress, and their whole manner of living. Also 
those who do not reproach them with errors, nor 
their own benefits; for both these descriptions of 
people have an air of reproving them. People admire 
also those who forget old grievances; and who do 
not treasure up grounds of quarrel, but are easily re- 
conciled ; because of whatever disposition they show 
themselves towards others, people naturally think they 
will prove to be of towards themselves also: as also 
those who do not talk scandal, nor inform themselves 
of the ills either of their neighbours or themselves, 
but of their good points only ; for this is the con- 
duct of a good man. We are friendly disposed also 
towards those who are not at cross purposes with 
us when angry, or seriously engaged; for all such 
people are fond of dispute: towards those also who 
comport themselves seriously towards us; thus, for 
instance, those who admire us, or consider us worthy 


. men, and take a pleasure in our society, and who are 


thus affected in regard particularly to points about 
which ourselves are desirous to be admired, or to ap- 
pear excellent or agreeable: as also towards our 
equals, and those who have the same objects in view, 
supposing they do not clash with us°, and that their 
livelinood arise not from the same profession, for thus 


* See Eth. Nich. iv. 8. 
5 So long as we are imitated at a respectful distance: 


Non ita certandi cupidus, quam propter amorem 
Quod te imitari aveo: Lucretius, iii. 5. 


our pride is flattered ; but when this imitation has been sv suc- 
cessfully continued as to resemble competition, our envy is 
quickly awakened. To this point Rochefoucault well ob- 
serves,—‘‘ Those who endeavour to imitate us we like much 
better than those who endeavour to egua/ us. Imitation is a 
sign of esteem, but competition of envy.’? Maxims, No. 113, 


cuaP. Iv.] RHETORIC. 119 


arises an instance of the proverb, “ Potter hates pot- 
ter ®.” We stand thus affected towards those also 
who are desirous of the same objects with ourselves, 
and which it is possible for us to participate in as 
well as them; otherwise the same collision takes 
place in this case: towards those also, in regard to 
whom men have themselves in such a way as, while 
they do not hold them cheap, not to feel shame on 
mere matters of opinion. With this feeling do peo- 
ple regard those also in respect to whom they feel 
shame about matters really shameful: and those be- 
fore whom they are studious to stand approved, and 
by whom they wish to be emulated, yet without be- 
ing envied, all these men either love as friends, or 
wish to become their friends; also those with whom 
they would co-operate toward some good, were it not 
that greater ills are likely thereby to befall them- 
selves: and such as regard with friendly feeling, the 
absent equally with the present; on which account 
all love those who manifest this disposition in regard 
to the dead. Also men entirely love those who are 
particularly zealous for their friends and never aban- 
don them ; for eminently beyond all the good, people 
love those who are good as friends. They also love 
those who do not dissemble towards them; of this 
class are such as mention their own failings; for it 
has been said already, that before friends we feel no 
shame about mere matters of opinion; if, then, he 
who is so ashamed has not the feelings of a friend, 
the man who is without such shame bears a resem- 
blance to one who has friendly feelings. Also we 
love those who do not inspire us with fear, and be- 
fore whom we feel confidence; for no one loves a 
person whom he fears’. But the species of friend- 
ship are companionship, intimacy, relationship, and 
the like. And the efficient causes of friendship are 
gratuitous benefits, the rendering a service unsoli- 
cited, and the not disclosing it after it has been ren- 


6 Two of a trade can ne’er agree. 
7 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear. 
L John iv. 18. 


22. Those 
who imi- 
tate us. 


25. 


26. Such 
as love 
the dead 


27. The 
sincere. 


28. Three 
sorts of 
friend- 
ship. 

29. Causes 
of friend- 
ship : 


30. 


and of 
hatred. 


81. Six 
points of 
compari- 
son be- 
tween an- 
er and 
tred. 


120 ARISTOTLE’S [Boca 11. 


dered ; for thus done the favour appears to be solely 
for the sake of your friend himself, and from no other 
motive. 

The subject of hatred, however, and of bearing it, 
may, it is plain, be considered by taking the contra- 
ries. But the efficient causes of hatred are anger, 
vexatiousness, calumny. 

1. Now anger arises out of something which has 
reference to ourselves; hatred, however, even inde- 
pendently of any thing having reference to ourselves, 
since if we conceive a person to be of a certain de- 
scription, we bear hatred towards him. 2. And our 
anger invariably has reference to individual objects, 
as to Callias* or Socrates ; but hatred may be borne 
even to whole classes; for every one hates the cha- 
racter of a thief and an informer. 3. Again, the one 
feeling is to be remedied by time; the other is in- 
curable. 4. Also the first is a desire of inflicting pain 
on its object, the last of doing him deadly harm; for 
the angry man wishes to be felt®, to him who bears 
hatred this matters not; and all. things which give 
pain may be felt; but what does harm in the highest 
degree, is least capable of being felt, for instance, in- 
justice and folly, for the presence of vice does not at 
all pain [him to whom it is present]. 5. And anger is 
attended by pain, hatred is not; for he who is affect- 
ed by anger is pained, but he who is affected by 

8. Callias is attacked by Luvian in his dialogue, entitled 
Τιμὼν ἢ Μισάνθρωπος, where Mercury, taxing Plutus with not 
going to those who deserve riches, says, ᾿Αριστείδην καταλιπὼν 
Ἱππονίκῳ καὶ Καλλὶᾳ προσήεις. p. 232, Scrip. Grec.; and 
several times in Aristophanes. 

® So chap. iii. § 16. It was remarked that a man who is © 
affected by anger does not consider that he has his revenge, 
unless the object perceive both at whose hands, and in return 
for what, he suffers. From this, as from many other of its 
distinctive characteristics, anGER will be confessed to be a 
more generous passion than HATRED. To this purpose Lord 
Bacon well remarks, that ‘‘ Some, when they take revenge, 
are desirous the party should know whence it cometh: this is 
the more generous; for the delight seemeth to be not so much 
in doing the hurt, as in making the party repent; but base and 


crafty cowards are like the arrow that flieth im the dark.” 
Essays: Of Revenge. 


omar. v.| RHETORIC. 221 


hatred is not. 6. The former, too, had many ills 
befallen the object of his anger, might be inclined to 
pity him; the latter would not, in any case; for the 
former wishes the object of his anger to suffer in his 
turn, the latter desires the extinction of the object of 
his hate!®. Out of these heads, then, it is plain that 
the orator may both prove those to be friends and 
enemies who really are such, and render such those 
who are not, and may do away the assertions of 
people on the subject, and may draw over those who 
hesitate whether an act was done from motives of 
anger or hatred, to whatsoever side he may fix on. 


CHAP. V. 


The nature of Fear, and the objects which excite it, and the 
dispositions under which men are afraid. 


Tue sort of things which men fear, and the persons 
whom, and under what affections as regards them- 
selves, will thus become plain. Now, let fear be de- 
fined to be “ A sort of pain or agitation, arising out 
of an idea that an evil, capable either of destroying 
or giving pain, is impending on us.” People do not 
fear every evil!; for example, a man does not fear 
lest he shall become unjust or stupid ; but people fear 
all those evils whose effect is either a considerable 
degree of pain, or destruction, and these, provided 
they be not far removed, but give one the idea of 
being close at hand, so as to be on the eve of hap- 
pening”; for they do not fear that which is very far 


10 Quem oderunt, perisse expetunt. Ennius ap. Cic. de Off. 

1 It is essential to that evil which is the object of fear, that 
it seem qualified to destroy or inflict pain. It must be in fact 
such an evil as anger would inflict, rather than which hatred 
would. 

? This is the description of evil against which the brave 
man must arm himself, or, in the language of the Ethics, 
boa θάνατοι ἐπιφέρει ὑπόγνια ὄντα. Eth. Nich. iii. 6. 


32. These 
heads the 
orator is 
to use, 


1. Fear 
defined, 


2. Objects 
which oc- 
casion it. 


3.Danger. 


4, In- 
justice. 


5. Insult- 
ed virtue. 


6. The 
fear of our 
enemies, 


122 ARISTUTLE’S ἴβουκ m. 


off: for all know that they shall die; but since the 
event is not near, they pay no attention to it. 

If then fear be this, it must follow that all those 
things are to be feared which appear to possess great 
power either of destroying, or of hurting, in points 
whose tendency is toward considerable pain. On 
which account even the symptoms of such things are 
alarming, for the evil appears to be at hand; since 
this in fact is danger, viz. “the approach of what 
excites fear.” Of this description, however, are both 
the hatred and the anger of those who have it in their 
power to do us any harm; for it is evident that they 
have both the will and the power, so that they are 
not far from doing it. Also injustice, possessed of 
power ; for [it is evident that it does not want inclin- 
ation to do harm] since it is from settled inclination 
that the unjust man is unjust. Also insulted virtue, 
invested with power; for it is evident that, invaria- 
bly, when it is insulted, it determines on a requital, 
and now it has the power of exacting one. The 
fear also of those who have the power of doing us 
any harm, is itself an object to be dreaded; for any 
one, in such circumstances, will of course be pre- 
pared against us. 

But as men in general are depraved, and may be 
prevailed on by gain, and are timid amid dangers ; it 
is, generally speaking, a fearful thing to be at the 
disposal of another. So that accomplices in any 
deed of guilt are to be feared, lest either they should 


. denounce you, or abandon you to trial. Also those 


who have the power to act unjustly, are always ob- 
jects of fear to such as may be attacked by injustice ; 
for, in nine cases out of ten, a man when he has the 
power, perpetrates the injustice. Also those who 


* Compare c.19,§19. See Dr. Johnson’s motives for sup- 
pressing some of Savage’ s remarks on the great: ‘‘ What was 
the result of Mr. S.’s inquiry, though he was not accustomed 
to conceal his discoveries, it may not be entirely safe to relate, 
because the persons whose characters he criticised are power. 

j AND POWER AND RESENTMENT ARE SELDOM STRANGERS,” 
etc. Life of Savage, p. 336 


CHAP. V.] RHETORIC. 123 


have beet wronged‘, or who conceive themselves to 
liave been wronged; for they are ever on the watch 
for an opportunity [of retaliating]. Also those who 
have wronged others®, if possessed of power, are to 
be feared, from their apprehension of being retaliated 
on; for cases of this kind were laid down to be such 
as to excite alarm. ‘Those, too, who are rivals for 
the same objects, and which it is not possible should 
accrue to both, for people are ever at variance with 
those towards whom they stand on this footing. 
Those who are objects of fear to our superiors, are 
also objects of fear to ourselves; for much more will 
they be able to injure us, than our superiors: and for 
the same reason [we needs must fear those] whom 
our superiors fear®. Men dread those also who have 
already annihilated persons superior to themselves ; 
and those who have attacked their inferiors; for, 
either they are already deserving fear, or they will 
become so by being aggrandized in power. And 
among those who have been wronged, or are enemies, 
or opponents, it is not the passionate, and those who 
speak their minds freely, who are to be dreaded ; but 
the mild, the dissembling, and the insidious ; for they 
give us to doubt, whether they be not close upon us, 
so that they are never clearly known to be too far off 
to reach us. 


* “Tt is too common for those who have unjustly suffered 
pain, to inflict it likewise in their turn with the same injustice, 
and to imagine that they have a right to treat others as they 
have themselves been treated.”’ Ibid. p. 339. 

5 If the maxim of Tacitus be true—“ Proprium humani in- 
genil est odisse quem leseris ;”’ then surely Aristotle’s position, 
that they are to be feared, will follow as a corollary from it ;— 


Quem metuunt oderunt, 
Quem oderunt, perisse expetunt. Ennius apud Cic. de Offic. 


§ Victorius, wishing to show that this is not “a distinction 
without a difference,” remarks, that by φοβεροὺς, the term used 
in the former case, we are to understand persons evidently 
possessed of that which all the world knows to be dreadful : 
whereas, in the latter case, Aristotle alludes to persons, whose 
power not being quite so manifest, we fear only because we 
see those people fear it, whose means of resistance are superior 
to our own. 


The 
wronged 


9. Rivals, 


11. 


The mild 
and dis- 

sembling, 
etc.: more 
to be fear- 
ed than 

the hasty 


12. Great- 
est objects 
of terror. 


Fear and 
sehr close- 


13. How 
those are 
affected 
that feel 
fear. 


14. 


124 ARISTOTLE’S ἘΒΟΟΚ II, 


But all those circumstances which excite fear, have 
a still greater tendency to do so, in respect of which 
should a man have committed a mistake, it is not pos- 
sible for him to recover himself, but which either are 
impracticable altogether, or which cannot be correct- 
ed by himself, but by his enemies only : as have those 
also which we have no means, or no easy means, of 
averting. So that, to speak generally, all those things 
are to be feared, which, happening or being likely to 
happen in the case of others, excite compassion. ‘The 
circumstances then of fear, and which men are alarm- 
ed at, those at least of greatest importance, are, as I 
may say, nearly those which I have enumerated: and 
now let me state under what dispositions, as regards 
themselves, men are susceptible of fear. 

Now, if fear be attended by an apprehension οἱ 
suffering some destructive evil, it is plain that none 
of those who consider that they shall not suffer any 
thing, is subject to fear; and that no one is subject 
to it, in regard to those things which he does not con- 
sider that he shall suffer; nor in regard to those 
persons at whose hands he does not apprehend any 
thing ; nor at a time when he is without apprehen- 
sions. It must follow, therefore, that those are sub- 
ject to fear, who apprehend they shall suffer some- 
thing, and this in regard to the persons at whose 
hands, and the things which, and at the times when, 
they so apprehend. But neither are those who are, 
and who think themselves to be, in the midst of great 
good fortune, at all apprehensive of suffering any 
thing, (on which account they are contumelious, con- 
temptuous, and rash; but it is wealth, strength, 
number of friends, power, which renders men of this 
temper, ) nor those who think that already they have 
suffered the sum of all that is horrible’, and whose 
feelings have been chilled with respect to what awaits 
them, just as those who have been already beaten on 
the rack; but [in order to the existence of fear] 
there must needs arise some hope of safety, about 


’ Fuisset ; 
Quem metui moritura ? ZEn. iv. 603, 


; 


CHAP. v.] RHETORIC. 125 


which men feel the painful anxiety®; and this is a 
proof of it, that fear makes men deliberate ; and yet 
no one deliberates about that which is utterly hope- 
less. So that, when it shall better serve our cause 15. 
that the audience be affected by fear, we must set 
them off as persons liable to suffer, inasmuch as others 
of greater power have suffered, and also to show that 
their equals are or have been exposed to sufferings ; 
and this, at the hands of persons from whom they 
would not have apprehended it, and such things, and 
at times when they would not have apprehended it. 

But since on the subject of fear, it is plain what it 16. Confi 
is ; and on the subject of things exciting fear, and — dee 
also with what dispositions men experience it; from . 
this it will be plain both what confidence is, and on 
what points men are confident, and with what dis- 
positions ; for both confidence itself is the opposite of 
fear, and what inspires it is the opposite of what ex- 
cites fear; so that it is the hope of things conducive 
to safety, accompanied by an idea that they are near ; 
and of things to be feared, that they either do not 
exist, or are at a distance. 

But these are circumstances inspiring confidence ; 17. Cir- 
to have danger afar off, and that in which we may {10 
confide, near: also means of recovering from, or of that cre- 


averting loss, whether these be numerous, or valua- me confis 
ence, 


8 Thus Seneca ;— Desines timere, si sperare desieris.”’ 
“1 have often thought, that after a man has taken the resolu- 
tion to kill himself, it is not courage in him to do any thing, 
however desperate, because he has nothing to fear. When a 
man, either from fear, or pride, or conscience, or whatever 
motive, has resolved to kill himself; when once the resolution 
is taken, he has nothing to fear. He may then go and take 
the king of Prussia by the nose at the head of his army. He 
cannot fear the rack who is resolved to kill himself. When 
Eustace Budgell was walking down to the Thames, determined 
to drown himself, he might if he pleased, without any appre- 
hension of danger, have turned aside and first set fire to St. 
James’s. palace.” —Boswell’s Johnson, A. D. 1773; Att. 64, 
Satan, in his address to the sun, says,— 


So farewell hope, and with hope farewell fear, 
Farewell remorse; all good to me is lost. 
Par. Lost, lib. iv. 108. 


15 Per- 
sons who 
feel confi- 
dence. 
The suc- 
cessful. 


19. 


20. The 
rich, etc. 


0 Ct ARISTOTLE’S [Book 1. 


ble, or both: again, should we never have been in- 
jured, nor have ourselves injured others; also, if we 
have no rival at all; or should those we have, be de- 
void of power; or, supposing they have power, should 
they be our friends; or should they have benefited 
us, or have been themselves benefited by us; or 
should those, to whom the same things are an object 
as to ourselves, be more numerous than those to whom 
they are not, or more powerful, or both at once. 

But, as regards themselves, people feel confidence 
when thus affected : should they conceive themselves 
to have been often successful, and this without hav- 
ing suffered ; or should they often have fallen into 
danger, and have escaped: for there are two ways 
in which men become dead to apprehension, either 
from never having experienced, or from being pos- 
sessed of resources against calamity; just as, in the 
case of danger by sea, both those who never expe- 
rienced a storm feel confidence as to the result, and 
those who from their experience possess resources 
against it. Men feel it also, when the case does not 
alarm their equals, nor their inferiors, nor those to 
whom they conceive themselves superior ; but they 
conceive thus of those whom, either absolutely in their 
own persons, or virtually in the persons of their su- 
periors or of their equals, they have overcome. And 
again, if they conceive there belong to themselves, in 
greater number and degree, those things in which, 
when they have the advantage, men are objects of 
fear; and these are, store of wealth, and strength in 
respect to retainers, and friends, and territory, and 
warlike preparation, either all together, or the most 

9 [t is on this topic that A=neas rests his consolation to his 
distressed followers. 


O socii, (neque enim ignari sumus ante malorum,) 
O passi graviora; dabit Deus his quoque finem. 
Vos et Scylleam rabiem penitusque sonantes 
Adcestis scopulos: vos et Cyclopia saxa 

Experti. En. i. 198. 


So Lord Byron in the Giaour: 


Though far and near the bullets hiss, 
I ’ve scaped a bloodier hour than this, 


cHar. vI.] RHETORIC. 127 


tmportant of them. Also, if they have not wronged 
any one, or not many, or not any of such a character 
as men are apprehensive of. And, in a word, if their 
account stands well with heaven, as well in other re- 
spects, as in what regards omens and oracles!®: be- 
cause anger is a thing which inspires confidence ; 
and the being free from the commission of injustice, 
while you are wronged yourself, is productive of 
anger ; and the deity is supposed to aid such as have 
been wronged. [Once more, people feel confidence | 
when, being the first aggressors, they think they can 
suffer nothing, or shall not, or shall succeed at last. 
And of the subject of what inspires confidence and 
fear, we have spoken. 


CHAP. VI. 


Touching what points men are alive to, or insensible to, 
Delicacy of Feeling ; towards whom ; and, as regards 
themselves, with what dispositions. 


TuE points about which men feel delicate, or are in- 
sensible to such feelings, and towards whom, and 
with what dispositions, will be manifest from what 
follows. Now, let sense of shame be defined to be 
“a kind of pain and agitation about evils present, 
past, or to come, which appear to tend to loss of cha- 
racter.” And impudence to be, “a sort of neglect 
and callousness about these points.” 

Now, if the sensibility defined be actually sensi- 
bility to shame, it must follow that a man is affected 
by it, on the occurrence of evils of a kind which ap- 
pear to be disgraceful, either to himself, or those for 


10 Aristotle is here giving us the reasons why the two last- 
mentioned descriptions of persons are confident: those whc 
never injured any, because it is natural to them to feel anger, 
which is in itself a source of confidence; and those who are 
well with heaven, from their reliance on the protection of the 
gods. The last case is beautifully exemplified in the con- 
fidence felt by Nicias in Sicily. 


22. Such 
as think 
them- 
selves se- 
cure. 


μι 
. 


2. Defini 
tion of 
shame ; 
of impu- 
dence. 


3. The 
occasions 
when 
shame is 
felt. 


Coward- 


Ice. 


Intem- 


4 


perance. 


Mean- 
ness. 


8. Adula- 


tion. 


5. 


‘128 ARISTOTLE’S BOOK ts 


whom he has a regard: and such are all results of 
depravity whatsoever ; for example, the casting away 
one’s shield, or the turning to flight, for this pro- 
ceeds from cowardice ; and the withholding a deposit! 
from a person, for it is the result of injustice. And 


‘ that cohabitation with those with whom we ought 


not, or where, or when we ought not, [is a source of . 
shame ;] for it is the result of intemperance: as is — 
also the deriving gain from paltry, mean, or imprac- 
ticable sources, as from the poor, for instance, or 
from the dead; whence also the proverb, “ ¢o pillage 
even from the dead :” for it is the result of a sordid 


. hankering after lucre, and of meanness. It is also a 


source of shame for a person, who has the means, 
not to contribute his aid in money matters, or to do 
so in a minor degree; and for one to be assisted by 


. those in less easy circumstances than himself; and 


for one to borrow himself, when his friend appears 
to be asking a loan ; and to ask a further loan, when 
he would recall a former; and the recalling a former 
loan when he asks another ; and the praising a ihing 
to such a degree as to seem to ask for it; and the 
persisting no less, though often foiled; for these are 
all indications of meanness. And the praising a 
person in his presence is a token of adulation; and 
the praising a man’s good points, while you slur over 
his failings ; or, when one is grieved, the exhibiting 
grief in an inordinate degree, and whatever other 
conduct is of a similar kind, [is a source of shame, ] 


. because it manifests adulation. [It is also shameful ] 


not to sustain toils which those who are advanced in 
years, or who live delicately, or who are of higher 


rank, or, in a word, which they sustain whose 


10. 


strength is inferior to your own; because all these 
are indications of effeminacy: and so it is to be be- - 
nefited by another, and that frequently; or, to re- 


1 Spartano cuidam respondit Pythia yates ; 
Haud impunitum quondam fore, quod dubitaret 
Depositum retinere, etc. Juy. xiii. 139. 


See the account of the deposit left bya Milesian with Glau. 
eus the son of Epicydes. Herodot. vi. 86. 


omar. v1.} RHETORIC 129 


proach a person with his obligations to you; fur 

they are all indications of a mean and abject spirit. 

Again, to talk about one’s self, and to be one’s own 11 Vaai- 
trumpeter ; and to assert that to be one’s own which ἴδ΄ 
belongs to another; for these are indications of arro- 

gance. In the same way, too, in the several other 
instances of moral depravity, both their results, their 
indications, and the like attendant circumstances, are 

all subjects of shame; for they are disgraceful, and 

make one ashamed. And to the afore-mentioned we 12 

may add,‘the non-participation in those creditable 
qualities which either every body, or all our equals, 
or the greatest part of them, partake of. By equals 
I mean, fellow countrymen, citizens, those of the 
same age, relations ; in a word, those with whom we 
are on an equality ; for [when a thing is so general | 
the non-participation in it begins to be disgraceful ; 
for instance, the not having been educated”, at least 
in a certain degree, and so in the case of other 
deficiencies ; but the disgrace of all these things be- 
comes much greater, should they appear to be want-_ 
ing by our own fault; for thus, they are more pro- 
perly the result of depravity should one be himself 
the cause of what has attached to him, or does now, 
or is likely so to attach. Again, men are sensible to 
feelings of shame, when they are suffering, have suf- 
fered, or are about to suffer any thing of such a na- 
ture, as tends to loss of respect, and disgrace: and 
these are all services consisting in the lending one’s 
self either personally, or in any shameful action 
where there is an idea of suffering insult: and what- 
ever administers to intemperance, whether it be vo- 
luntary, or not. and submission to violence, if invo- 


be 


8 


3 It was by a somewhat similar consideration that Dr. 
Johnson refuted the argument of those who opposed the edn- 
cation of the poor on the ground of its raising their ideas above 
their sphere of life. “ΠῚ suid he, “ἃ few only are educated, 
it is a distinction, and those few may be proud ; if it be general, 
it ceases to be a distinction, and, of course, to be a ground of 
pride. And the contrary will be the result; for instead οἱ its 
being ground of pride that a man has been educated, it will be 
matter of shame if he has not.” Boswel!’s Life 

K 


34. Per- 
sons in 
whose 
presence 
men feel 
shame. 
Whom 
they 
esteem. 
15. 


16, Ad- 
mire. 


17. Their 
equals. 


18. Those 
with 
whom 
they 

must live 


19. The 
innocent 


18. ARISTOTLE’S [soox πὶ 


luntary; for such submission, without defending 
one’s self, proceeds from an unmanly character, and 
from cowardice. These then, and the like to these, 
are the things about which men are sensible of shame. 
But as the sense of shame is an idea entertained of 
loss of character ; and of this loss, in itself alone, with- 
out reference to its consequences ; and as no one re’ 
ards the opinion, except for the sake of those who 
hold it; it must follow that a man is thus sensible in 
regard to those for whom he has an esteem. But he 
will have an esteem for those who admire him, and 
whom he does himself admire, and by whom he wishes 
to be admired, and in regard to whom he feels emu- 
lation, and whose opinion he does not hold cheap. 
Now, people wish to be admired by, and do them- 
selves admire, all those who possess any of those 
goods which are valued; or from whom they happen 
to be very much in want of getting something of 
which they have the disposal ;. for instance, those who 
are inlove. But people have their emulation excited, 
in. reference to their equals; and they hold in consi- 
deration the prudent*, as being men who adhere to 
truth; of this description are men of education, and 
such as are advanced in years. Also actions done in 
the eyes of the world and in public [excite our shame], 
and hence the proverb, that ‘Shame dwells in the 
eyes.” On this account, people are more sensible of 
shame before those with whom they are always likely 
to be present, and those who fix their attention on 
them, for both these are instances of being before the 
eyes of persons :—again, they are sensible of it be- 
fore those who are not open to charges on the same 
points ; for their sentiments, it is evident, are the op- 
posite of their own: before those also who do not 
make allowances for such as appear to be faulty ;. for 
errors which a man commits Azmself, these he is said 


3 Οἱ φρόνιμοι, more properly, men of the world. Such a 
character Cicero seems to have had in view, according to Vic- 
torius, when he says, “ gud est versatus in rebus, vel usu, quem 
gtas denique affert, vel auditione et cogitatione, que studio et 
diligentia precurrit etatem.’”’ Cic. de Orat. ii. 30. 


cHaP. VI.} RHETORIC, 131 


not to take amiss in his neighbours; so that he evi- 
dently will take amiss such as he does not commit 
himself: and before those who are fond of divulging 
what they know to the world; for whether a man 
does not think one’s conduct faulty, or does not divulge 
it, makes no difference. But persons likely to di- 
vulge [what they know to one’s discredit] are such 
as have been injured, from their being anxiously on 
the watch to retaliate ; and those who are slanderers 


20. Tae 
tlers. 


generally ; for if they speak ill even of those who are Ὁ 


not culpable, much more will they of those who are: 
as are also those who are on the look-out for the 
errors of their neighbours, for instance, jesters, and 
the poets of the old comedy; for these are in some 
sense slanderers, and fond of divulging. Again, [men 
are sensible of shame] before those with whom they 
never met with a repulse; for they are disposed to- 
wards them as admirers. On which account men 
‘have a sense of shame, even towards those who ask 
any thing for the first time, as having never yet for- 
feited their good opinion in any points. And of this 
description are both those who have lately sought to 
be our friends. for they have observed our excellent 
qualities ; and hence, the reply of Euripides to the 
Syracusans is a good one‘; and, of our old acquaint- 
ances, those who know no ill of us. And men are 
sensible of shame not only about the things them- 
selves which have been mentioned as delicate points, 
but even about the indications of them ; for instance, 
not only about licentious conduct, but also about all 
indications of it; not only in doing what is disgrace- 
ful, but even in mentioning it®. And in the same 
way they are sensible of shame, not only before those 
who have been mentioned, but before those also who 

4 It appears that Euripides had been sent to Sicily as am- 
bassador, but finding the Syracusans inclined to reject his 
oak ape for a peace, he told them, “ that they surely ought to 

ave some respect for a people who held them in such high 


consideration, particularly as this was their first request.” 
5 Quod factu foedum est, idem est et dictu turpe. 
Οὐ yap αὐδάν ἔσθ᾽ ἃ μηδὲ δρᾷν καλόν, 
Sophoe. Gad, Tyr. 1499. 
K 2 


Servants. 


132 ARISTOTLE’S (BOOK It | 


will be likely to disclose their conduct to them, as for 
instance, their servants or their friends. In brief, 


‘ however, people are not at all sensible of shame be- 


24. How 
affected 

men feel 
shame, 


When the 
world is 
looking 
on, 


25. When 
discredit 
may at- 
tac 


fore those whose opinions, in regard to their justness, 
they hold cheap; for no one feels shame before chil- 
dren and brutes: nor do men feel it about the same 
points when before acquaintances, as before strangers ; 
but when before acquaintances they feel it on points 
really shameful®; but before strangers on matters 
merely sanctioned by eustom. 

As regards themselves, men would be likely to be 
sensible of shame under these dispositions; first, if 
there should really exist any so affected towards them- 
selves, as I described those to be, in regard to whom 
they feel shame. And these were either those whom 
they hold in admiration, or by whom themselves are 
held in admiration, or by whom they are desirous of 
being admired, or of whom they are petitioning some- 
thing which they will not be likely to get, if not men 
of character. And if these be either actual spectators 
(just as, on the question of the allotment of Samos to 
colonists, Cydias introduced in his harangue to the 
ecclesia; for he put it to the Athenians to imagine 
that the Greeks were standing round as actual specta- 
tors, and not as mere future hearers, of the decree 
which they might pass); or should persons of this 
description be near, or be likely soon to be aware of 
their conduct: and on this account persons in misfor- 
tune, do not wish even to be seen by those who once 
deemed them happy; for they who thus deem of us 
are admirers. And when they have attached to them 
what throws discredit on the conduct and the actions, 
either of themselves, or of their ancestors, or any 
others with whom in any way they are closely con- 
nected ; and, in one word, all in whose behalf they 
are sensible of shame; afd these are the above-men- 
tioned, and those who stand in any relation to them, 


4 He told us above (chap. iv. § 23), that thase people were 
usually regarded as friends “‘ before whom we feel no delicacy 
on matters of mere opinion, though far from disregarding their 
opinions.”’ 


CHaP vi.] RHETORIC, 133 


whose tutors or advisers they have been?, And if 
there be others, their equals, with whom they are at 
rivalry ; for, from a feeling of shame, on account of 
persons of this description, men both do and leave 
undone very many things. Again, when people are 
likely to be seen, and openly to be engaged before 
those who are privy [to their disgrace], they become 
in a higher degree susceptible of shame. And hence 
the poet Antiphon, just as he was going to be beaten 
on the rack by Dionysius, observing those who were 
about to be executed with him muffiling themselves 
up as they went through the gate, said, “Why do 
you muffle yourselves up ;—is it lest any of these pre- 
sent should see you to-morrow ?” 

Thus much then on the subject of the sense of 
shame ; but of insensibility to it, we shall evidently 
know enough from the contraries. 


CHAP. VII. 


Those towards whom people feel Gratitude ; on what occa- 
sions ; and, as regards themselves, with what dispositions. 


THE persons towards whom men feel gratitude, and 
the occasions on which, and with what dispositions 
on their own part, will be plain to us, after we have 
defined gratuitous benevolence. Now, let gratuitous 


7 The Stoics had observed this feeling of carrying our views 
onward to posthumous glory; and found the love of glory the 
most difficult of all passions to eradicate :---διὸ καὶ ἔσχατος 
λέγεται τῶν παθῶν χιτὼν ἡ φιλοδοξία, διότι τῶν ἄλλων TOA- 
λάκις δι᾽ αὐτὴν ἀποδυομένων αὐτὴ προσίσχεται τῆ ψυχῇ. Sim- 
plicius in Comm. ad Epicteti, cap. 48. Tacitus, in speaking 
of the great love of fame manifested by Helvidius Priscus, jus- 
tifies him, by observing that Etiam sapientibus cupido glorie 
novissima eruitur. Hist. iv. 6. A mode of expression which 
strongly brings to our recollection the passage in Milton’s 
Lycidas, | 

Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise, 
That last infirmity of noble mind. Lycid. 70 


26. With 
thei 
equals. 


27. When 
openly 
disgraced: 


5. How 
the orator 
paust in- 


134 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK If. 


benevolence ! be “ that conformably to which, he who 
has the power is said to confer a benefit on one who 
needs it, not in return for any thing, nor in order that 
any thing may accrue to him who so confers it, but 
that some benefit may arise to the object.” But it 
becomes great should it be conferred on one who is in 
extreme want”, or if the boon be great and difficult 
of attainment, or at a crisis of a certain description, 
or if the giver has bestowed it alone, or first, or in a 
greater degree than any other. Wants are however 
our desires of these ; such particularly as are attend- 
ed by pain on failing of their objects; and of this 
description are our lusts, as for instance, love. Again, 
such as arise in the suffering of the body, and in dan- 
ger; for both the man who is exposed to danger, and 
who suffers pain, is anxious for something. On which, 
account, those who stand by us in poverty and ban- 
ishment, should they confer even trifling benefits, 
will yet have gratified us by reason of the greatness 
of our need, and the circumstances of the time; take 
the instance of him who gave but a mat [to a beggar ] 
in the Lyceum. It is necessary, then, that our obli- 
gation have reference, if possible, by all means to 
some case of this sort, but if not, to some one of equal 
or greater need. So that, as it is evident both when, 
and in what cases, an act of free benevolence takes 
place, and how the parties are affected, it is plain that 
out of these principles we must get up our speech, 
showing that, as regards the one party, they were or 
are exposed to pain, or want of this description, and 
as regards the other, that in such their want they as- 
sisted them by administering some boon of this de- 
scription. 

And it is also evident, by recurring to what topics 
we may do away the obligation, and make our audi- 


1 This chapter presents considerable difficulty from the 
double meaning of which the word χάρις is capable. See 
Schrader’s Note, Animadv, 

3 Hence the value of the aid sent by the Athenians to the 
“Lacedemonians, when the Helots had possessed themselves of 
ithome 


CHAP. VII. J RHETORIC. 135 


ence insensible of grateful feelings’; for either we 
may urge that they are or were assisting them for 
their own sakes, and this was supposed not to be free 
benevolence; or are doing so just because it fell out 
by chance, or because they were compelled to do so; 
or that they paid back a debt, but did not bestow a 
gift, and this as well if the party was conscious of 
his having been so indebted, as if he was not; be- 
cause there is in both cases the idea of a guid pro 
quo; so that neither on this view of the case will 
any gratitude be felt. We should also examine the 
point under all the predicaments; for free benevo- 
lence stands in this, either that that particular thing 
was given, or in such quantity, or of such a quality, 
or as to the time when, or the place where, it was 
given. And we may adduce it as a sign to suit this 
purpose, if the parties in question have refused a less 
favour ; and if they have conferred on an enemy either 
the same favour, or an équal one, or a greater; for 
then it will be evident that they did it not for our 
sakes. Or, if he wittingly has given something 
paltry‘; for no one acknowledges that he stands in 
need of what is paltry. 

And now have my sentiments respecting benevo- 
lence, and the want of it, been explained. 


3 The ease with which impressions of gratitude might be 
effaced, appears to have been fully conceived by that French 
statesman, who said, when he granted a favour, “J’ ai fait diz 
mécontents, et un ingrat.” 

* Horace sneers at this kind of liberality. 


Quo more pyris vesci Calaber jubet hospes, 
Tu me fecisti locupletem.—Vescere sodes.— 

Jam satis est.—At tu quantum vis tolle-—Benigne.— 
Non invisa feres pueris munuscula parvis— __ 

Tam teneor dono, quam si dimittar onustus.— 

Ut libet: “hac vorcis hodve comedenda relinguis.’””. 

Ep. lib. i. 7, 14. 


vest the 
audience 
with 


it 
He 
eelings, 
or other- 
wise. 


& Per 


136 ARISTOTLE’S [BCOK πὶ 


CHAP. VIII. 
Of Pity. 


Let us explain the circumstances which excite pity ; 
and the persons whom men pity; and, as regards 
themselves, with what dispositions. Now let pity be 
defined to be!, “a sort of pain occasioned by an evil 
capable of hurting or destroying”, appearing to be- 
fall one who does not deserve it, which one may 
himself expect to endure’, or that some one connect- 
ed with him will; and this when it appears near 
for it evidently is necessary that a person likely te 
feel pity should be actually such as to deem that, 
either in his own person, or of some one connected 
with him, he may suffer some evil, and that an evil 
of such a description as has been stated in the defini- 
tion, or one similar to it, or nearly equivalent to it*. 
On which account neither do those who are abso- 


1 Grief for the calamity of another is rity ; and ariseth from 
the imagination that the like calamity may befall himself; and 
therefore it is called also compassion, and, in the phrase of the 
present time, ὦ fellow-feeling: and therefore, for calamity 
arriving from great wickedness the best men have the least 
pity; and for the same calamity those men hate pity, that 
think themselves least obnoxious to the same. Hobbes’s Le- 
viathan. See Rochefoucault’s Maxims, No. 342, where the 
above is quoted in the note. 

3 The evil in the case of pity is of the same character as 
was stated to be the object of fear. In fact, whatever when 
befalling another excites pity, in one’s own case excites fear 
Vid. chap. v. § 12. 

3 It is on this principle that, in the Poetics, describing the 
character best adapted to the purposes of tragedy, and in whose 
sufferings we sha.l be most likely to take an interest, he ex. 
elndes an absolutely vicious character ;—atpaywrératov yap 
τοῦτό ἐστι πάντων οὐδὲν γὰρ ἔχει ὧν δεῖ" οὔτε yap φιλάνθρω- 
πον, οὔτε ἐλεεινὸν, οὔτε φοβερόν ἐστὶ. And a little after he 
gives the reason of this :---ἔλεος μὲν περὶ τὸν ἀνάξιον" φόβος δὲ 
“περὶ τὸν ὅμοιον, § 25. 

* Perhaps the whole germ of Aristotle’s doctrine on this 
subject may be traced, however ‘riefly expressed, in the cele. 
brated sentence of Terence, “‘ Humosum; humani nihil ἃ me 
alienum puto.” 


CHAP. VIII. ] RHETORIC. 137 


lutely lost, feel pity; for these think they shall no 
longer be exposed to suffering, for their sufferings are 
past; nor those who esteem themselves excessively 
happy, but these wax insolent ; for evidently, if they 
esteem every good to be realized to them, they also 
esteem their lot to be incapable of suffering any evil; 
since this also enters into the number of goods. But 
of this description, viz. such as think they may 
yet suffer evil, are both who already have suffered 
and escaped®; and those advanced in years, as well 
by reason of their prudence, as of their experience : 
and the weak ; and those who are rather timid; and 
men of education, for these calculate life’s contingen- 
cies aright ; and those to whom belong parents ®, or 
children, or wives, for these attach to one’s self, and 
are liable to suffer the above-mentioned evils. Those 
do not feel pity who are under the excitements of 
courage, for instance, under anger or confidence ; for 
these feelings little calculate the future: nor do those 
feel pity who are under insolent dispositions’; for 
these persons also calculate little of suffering any 
thing: but those who are of the mean temperament 
between these are susceptible of pity : and those again 
are not susceptible of it who are vehemently affected 
by fear; for such as are horror-struck do not feel 
pity®, by reason of its being akin to an evil which 
comes home to themselves. Also people are suscep- 
tible of pity, should they esteem some persons to be 
good; for he who esteems no one to be such”, will 


§ So Dido, “ Haud ignara mali miseris succurrere disco.” 
4 Exemplified in Priam’s appeal to Achilles: 


Μνῆσαι πατρὸς σεῖο, θεοῖς ἐπιείκελ᾽ ᾿Αχιλλεῦ, 
Τηλίκου, ὥσπερ ἔγων, x.7.X. l. xxiv. 486, 


7 Sophocles, CEd. Tyr. 873 :---ο-ὔβρις φυτεύει τύραννον. With 
the same view of human nature Aristotle, when he says that 
persons affected by pleasure are disposed to placability, quali- 
fied his expression by the exclusion of wanton insolence ;— 
οἱ ἐν ἡδονῇ μὴ ὑβριστικῇ, καὶ ἐν ἐλπίδι ἐπιεικεῖ" cap. iii. § 12. 

® Lear, Act v. sc. iii.: 

This judgment of the heavens, which makes 1s tremble, 
Touches us not with pity. 


* Thus the old, from their experience cf the depravity of 


sons who 
feel pity, 


4. 


5. 


6. and do 
not feel 


pity. 


10. 


11. 


12. Per- 
sons to be 
pitied. 


138 ARISTOTLY’ | BOOK rf. 


think every one deserving of evil. And in a word, 
every one, when he is so affected as to call to his 
recollection the fact, that evils of such a character 
have befallen either him or his, or to apprehend that 
they may befall either him or his. And now it has 
been stated with what dispositions men feel pity. 
The circumstances which excite their pity will be 
evident from the definition: tor whatever things, of 
the number of those which cause pain and anguish, 
have a tendency to destroy, ar3 all such as to cause 
pity: again, every thing whose tendency is utter 
abolition; also all those evils which involve the 
quality of greatness, and of which chance is the 


. cause!®, But the evils whose characteristic is great 


anguish and destruction, are 1s follows: death, as- 
saults, personal injuries, and age, and sickness, and 
want of food. And the evils of which chance is the 
cause, are, absolute want, or fewness of friends, (on 
which account even the being torn from friends and 
familiars is a circumstance to be pitied, ) ugliness, in- 


‘firmity, deformity, and the circumstance that some 


evil befalls one from a source whence it were becom- 
ing for some good to have arisen; and the frequent 
occurrence of a similar thing: and the accession of 
some good, when one has already passed his suffer- 
ings; as for example, the gifts of the king were sent 
down to Diopithes after he was dead!'; and the fact 
either that no good has accrued, or of there being no 
enjoyment of it when it has arrived. These, then, 
and the like, are the circumstances on account of 
which men feel pity. 

But people are sensible of pity toward their ac- 
quaintances, if they be not of extremely close con- 
nexion, but about such they feel just as they do about 
themselves when on the eve of suffering: and on this 


-- man, are less susceptible of pity than the young, whose inexpe- 


rience judges well of human nature. See chapters xii. and xiii. 
"Ὁ For chance in a great measure excludes the idea of the 
person’s deserving the evil he suffers. 
't Tn the last act of The Gamester there is a fine illustraticn 
of this; where Beverley hears of his succession to the inheri it- 


- ance just as he has drunk poison. 


CHAP. VIII. | RHETORIC. 139 


account Amasis!?, as they say, did not shed a tear 

over his son when he was being led to execution, but 

he did over his friend who was asking an alms; for 

this was a circumstance to call for pity; the other, 

to excite horror. For horror is distinct from pity, Herrcr is 
and has a tendency to expel pity from the breast, pacing 
and is frequently available to produce a contrary ef- 13. 
fect !3, Still men feel pity while the evil is yet ap- 
proaching. And they feel it towards their equals, 
whether in age, in temper, in habits, in rank, or in 
family ; for in all these relations, the evil is seen with 
greater clearness as possible to befall also one’s self. 
For we must here also assume generally, that what- 
ever people fear in their own case, that they pity as 
happening in the case of others. Butas the disasters 
which excite pity always appear to be close at hand, 
while, as to those removed at the distance of ten 
thousand years, men neither in the expectation of 
them, if future, nor in the remembrance of them, if 
past, are sensible of pity at all, or at least not in an 
equal degree; this being the case, it must follow that 
those characters which are got up withthe aid of 
gesture, and voice, and dress, and of acting, generally 
have the greater effect in producing pity!*, For 
thus, by setting the evil before our eyes, as either 


—s 


4. 


12 Perhaps Aristotle quoted from memory ; and it is not im- 
probable that he may have been mistaken as to the person to 
whom he attributes this conduct, since Herodotus relates the 
story, not of Amasis, but of his son Psammenitus; who re- 
maiks, in perfect accordance with the principles of the philo- 
sopher, τὰ μὲν οἰκήϊα---μέζω κακὰ ἢ ὥστε ἀνακλαίειν, Herod. 
iii. 14. See the conduct of Gelimer, the Vandal king of Africa, 
who burst into laughter at his interview with Belisarius after 

the loss of his kingdom and liberty. Gibbon, Dec. and Fall, 
chap. 41, note 3l. 

13 On this principle is founded one of his criteria of excess 
ef criminality, viz. if the recital of its effects produce fear ine 
stead of pity ;—6 οἱ ἀκούοντες φοβοῦνται μᾶλλον, ἢ ἐλεοῦσι, 
μεῖζον, lib. i. ο. xiv. § 5. 

4’ Roti μὲν οὖν τὸ φοβερὸν καὶ ἐλεεινὸν ἐκ THs ὄψεως γίνεσ- 
θαι, Poet. § 27. See a-ery pleasant paper of Addison’s on 
this subject, Spectator, No. 42, ‘“‘ We know the effect of the 
skull and black hangings in The Fair Penitent, the scaffold in 

Venice Preserved, the tomb in Romeo and Juliet,” etc, Twining. 


16. 


1. Indig- 


nation op- 


posed to 
pity. 


Definition 


of it. 


2. 


146 ARISTOTLE’S [Book m 


being on the eve of taking place, or as having har 
pened, men make it appear to be close at hand 
Likewise things which have just taken place, or 
quickly about to do so, have on this very account a 


. greater tendency to excite pity. Also the indications 


and actions of persons ; for instance, the garments '® 
of those who have suffered, and other things of that 
sort. And the expressions of those under suffering, 
for instance, of those already in act of dying. And 
especially is it a circumstance to move pity, that while 
in these crises the persons have borne themselves 
virtuously'®, For all these circumstances produce 
pity in a higher degree from its appearing near; also, 
the fact of the person’s being wnworthy, and his dis- 
aster appearing in view before our eyes. 


CHAP. IX. 
Of Indignation. 


To pity is opposed, most directly, that feeling which 
men call indignation ; for, to the feeling pain at un- 
deserved misfortune, is opposed in a certain way the 
feeling pain at undeserved good fortune, and it ori- 
ginates in the same disposition; and these feelings 
are both those of a virtuous disposition. For we 
ought to sympathize with, and to pity those who are 
undeservedly unfortunate; and to feel indignant at 
those who are undeservedly fortunate ; for whatever. 
happens contrary to desert is unjust; and on this 
account we make indignation an attribute. even of 


15 Witness the effect of Antony’s display of the robe of Cesar 
stained with his blood. Julius Cesar. 

* Illustrated in the effect produced by Polyxena 8 resigna- 
tion and anxiety to preserve, even in death, the decorum of 
female delicacy :--- 

ἡ δὲ καὶ ϑνήσκουσ᾽, ὅμως 
πολλὴν πρόνοιαν εἶχεν εὐσχήμως πεσεῖν, 
κρύπτουσ᾽, ἃ κρύπτειν ὄμματ᾽ ἀρσένων χρεών. 


Eurip Hecuba, 563. 


CHAP. 1Χ.] RHETOR.G. 41 


the gods'. It should seem, too, that envy stands 
opposed to pity in the same way, as appearing to be 
akin to, and in fact the same thing as, indignation ; 
and yet it really is distinct. For envy is also a pain 
causing agitation, ἐξ also is felt at good fortune, not, 
however, at the good fortune of the undeserving 
[only], but of equals and fellows?. The feeling, 
however, in all cases equally [of envy and of indig- 
nation |, must exist [in the breasts of those affected 
by it], not because any difference will be likely to 
accrue to themselves, but on account of their neigh- 
bour, solely as regards himself. For no longer will 
the one feeling be envy, and the other indignation, 
but fear, should the pain and agitation exist on this 
account, viz. because some evil will probably result 
to themselves from the good fortune of the other. 
But it is plain that opposite feelings will be conse- 
quent on these passions: for he who feels pain at 
those who are undeservedly unfortunate, will feel 
pleasure, or at least be unaffected by pain, at those 
who are unfortunate under different circumstances?; 
for instance, no good man would feel pain about par- 
ricides and murderers when they meet with punish- 
ment ; since we ought to feel joy at such occurrences ; 
and so in the case of those who are deservedly for- 
tunate; for both are instances of justice, and cause 
the good man to rejoice, since it must be that he has 
8 hope that what has been realized to his equal, will 
be realized also to himself, and these are all feelings 


1 Thus Herodotus attributes the turn in the fortunes of 
Creesus to his having incurred the divine indignation ;—Mera 
Σόλωνα οἰχόμενον, ἔλαβε ἐκ θεοῦ νέμεσις μεγάλη Κροῖσον" ws 
εἰκάσαι, ὅτι ἐνόμισε ἑωὺῦπτὸν εἶναι ἀνθρώπων ἁπάντων ὀλβιώτα- 
τον. Herodotus, i. 84. 

3 The envious and indignant have this in common, viz. the 
good fortune of their neighbour, as the object of their respect- 
ive passions; and the absence of any apprehension as to the 
degree in which their own circumstances may be affected by 
such good fortune ; for the moment they begin to calculate the 
probability of any detriment arising to themselves therefrora, 
the feeling, ceasing to be any longer envy or indignation, will 
have become fear. 

® That is. deservedly. 


8. Eu 
oppose 

to pity. 
Definition 
of it. 


4, Oppo 
site feel- 
ings are 
conse- 


pay on 


emotions, 


5. Both 
are useful 
to repress 


pity. 


6. Per- 
sons who 
excite in- 
digna- 
tion. 


8. Not 
such as 
have mo- 
ral advan- 
tages, but 


142 ARISTOTLE’S [Boox IL 


of the same disposition; and their opposites, of the 
opposite dispositions. Since the same man who ex- 
ults in misfortune‘ is also envious ; for any who feels 
pain at the accession and acquisition of any good, 
that person necessarily must rejoice when that good 
is in act of being withdrawn and lost. On which 
account these feelings are all of them obstacles to 
pity; but, among themselves, they differ for the fore- 
going reasons, so that all are alike available with a 
view to render a thing not an object of pity. 

On the subject of indignation, then, let us first 
state who the persons are with whom men feel in- 
dignant, the occasions on which, and, as regards 
themselves, with what dispositions; then, after these, 
of other points. But the subject will be plain from 
what has already been said ; for if indignation be a 
feeling pain on a man’s appearing to be undeservedly 
fortunate, it will be evident in the first place that it 
is not possible to feel indignation in the case of every 
good. For there is no one who, if another be just, 
or brave, or shall make acquisitions of virtue, will 
feel indignation at that other ; for neither is pity felt 
at the contraries of these qualities®: but it is about 

4 ᾿Επιχαιρεκακία, or, in the language of the ‘‘ Ethica Mag- 
na,” χαιρεκακία, is one of the extremes between which νέμεσις 
is said to exist: the other extreme is φθονερία, an aptitude to 
feelings of envy. Speaking of the “‘ great power and force” 
of the Greek language, a late translator of the Agamemnon of 
éschylus remarks, that “‘ One word would sometimes require 
for its translation a whole sentence of modern language ; as, 
for instance, ᾿Επιχαιρεκακία, a disposition to feel pleasure at 
the misfortunes of others; which makes a sentence, and con- 
stitutes a maxim in Rochefoucault, “ Il y a toujours dans le 
malheur d’autrui quelque chose qui ne nous deplait pas ;”’ and 
adds in a note, that Lord Bacon (Essays) has beautifully 
touched on this disposition: ‘“‘ There is a natural malignity ; 
for there be that in their nature do not affect the good 
others.”? Preface to Symmons’s translation of the Agamemnon. 

5 Pity is not felt at the absence of these qualities from any 
one, because they cannot be absent without being deservedly 
so; and it is essential to pity that its object be undeservedly 
exposed to that inconvenience which he suffers ; on the othe- 
hand, indignation cannot be felt at their presence, because it 1s 
the distinguishing feature of moral advantages that they cannot 
be possessed, without being deserved. 


CHAP. IXx.] RHETORIC. 143 


wealth and power and the like possessions [that 
people feel indignant], and in a word. about all those 
things of which the good are deserving, and such as 
are naturally possessed of advantages; as, for ex- 
ample, of high birth, of beauty, and advantages of 
that description. But-as what is ancient seems, in a 
certain sense, akin to what is natural, it must follow, 
that men are indignant, in a greater degree, at those 
who possess the very same good, if they be recently 
possessed of it, and are by its means in good circum- 
stances, [than with those who have long possessed 
it.] For those who have recently become rich give 
greater pain than those who have long been rich, and 
by right of birth. And, in the same way, persons 
in office, and men of power, and possessed of numer- 
ous friends, and of good children, and any good of 
this description; and likewise if, through the instru- 
mentality of these, there should accrue to them any 
further good: here, too, those of recent wealth, who 
by means of their wealth get into office, give greater 
pain than those who have been wealthy of old. And 
in a similar manner in the case of the others. But 
the reason of this is, that while the one sort appear 
to possess what is ther own, the others do not; for 
that which appears ever to have held this rank, 
seems to involve an idea of truth ; insomuch that the 
others seem to possess what does not belong to them. 
And as, of the goods, each does not become any one 
who may accidentally present himself, but there is a 
certain proportion and idea of adaptation; for ex- 
ample, splendour in respect of armour, is not adapted 
to a man whose virtue is justice, but to him who 
possesses courage; and splendid marriage feasts are 
not adapted to those of recent wealth, but to those of 
high birth: therefore if any one, though he may be 
a good man, meet with a possession which is not 
adapted to him, we should feel indignant; as also 
with an inferior who disputes with his superior; and 
particularly if he does so on the very points in which 
he is inferior. Whence also this was remarked by 
Homer: “ He missed engaging with Ajax the son of 


those of 
fortune, 


Such as 
are newly 
fortunate. 


10. They 
seem to 
possess 
what they 
have no 
right to. 


11. Such 
as have 
any good 
incongru 
ously, 


S-ach as 

ecmpare 
two ob- 

jects 


144 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK II. 


Telamon ; for Jupiter was indignant because he was 
fain to engage a hero his superior®.” But, if it be 
not on the same grounds, we feel indignant if an in- 
ferior challenge a superior, even on any grounds; 


which ad- for instance, if a musician were to dispute with a 


mit not of - 


compari- 
son. 


12. Men 
likely to 
feel indig- 
nation, 


13. 


just man, for justice is superior to music. The per- 
sons then with whom, and the reasons why men feel 
indignant will be evident from this; for they are 
these or others of the same description. 

As regards themselves, men have a tendency to in- 
dignation, if they deserve and have acquired the 
highest goods; for the circumstance of those not 
their equals being thought worthy of equal advan- 
tages, is not just. Next, they feel it, if they chance 
to be good and excellent persons; for they both 


14. The judge aright, and hate what is unjust. Again, if 


ambi- 
tious. 


16. 


16. On 
what oc 
casions 
men feel 
indig- 


nant, 


they be ambitious and desirous of certain objects, and 
especially should they be ambitious about those things 
which others who are undeserving obtain. And 
those, in a word, who think themselves worthy those 
things, of which they do not esteem others worthy, 
are apt to feel indignant at those others, and about 
those very objects. On which account slaves, sorry 
fellows, and men devoid of ambition, are not liable 
to feelings of indignation, since there is nothing of 
which they think themselves worthy. And from this 
it is evident on what occasions of misfortunes, or Hl 
luck, or failure of success, persons ought to rejoice, 
or at least to be unaffected by pain; for, from what 
has been stated, the contraries will be evident. Se 
that should the speech have wrought up the judges 
into this disposition, and should it have shown that 


_ those who claim to be pitied, and that the circum- 


stances under which they claim it, are undeserving 
pity, and really deserving not to gain it, it will be 
impossible for the judges to feel pity. 


9 The remark is made of Cebriones, Il. ii. vy. 542; where, 
however, the second line quoted by Aristotle dues not occur. 


cHar. X.] RHETOKIC. 145 


CHAP, X. 
Of Envy. 


Ir is plain also on what occasions, with whom, and 
with what dispositions men feel envy, if in truth 
envy be “a sort of pain at apparent good fortune, 


1, Envy, 


Its defin’ 


touching the above-mentioned goods!, in the case of >. 


equals, not in order that any thing may happen to 
one’s self, and simply on account of their [being thus 
fortunate ]:” for those who have, or seem to have 
equals, will be the people to be envious. I mean by 
equals, those who are like in circumstances of birth, 
connexions, age, habits, character, and property. 
They, too, will be envious who fall but little short of 
possessing all?: hence those who are carrying on 
mighty projects, and those who are prosperous, are 
envious ; for they think that every one is carrying off 
what belongs to them. Again, those who are re- 
markably esteemed on any account, and particularly 


bo 
5 


Men like» 
ly to feel 
envy are 
those 
within a 
little of 
the sum- 
mit. 


on account of their wisdom or happiness. And 3 


those who are ambitious are more given to envy than 
those who are devoid of ambition. And those who 
make a show of wisdom, for they are ambitious on the 
score of wisdom. And, in a word, those who in any 
respect are ambitious of glory are given to envy in 
that respect. And the narrow-minded ; for, to them, 
every thing appears of consequence. 

The goods respecting which men feel envy have 
been told you ; for all those things whatsoever, about 
which men are eager for praise, and ambitious, whe- 


1 See : 7 and 8 of the last chapter, where he excludes mo- 
ral excellence from the number of the goods which excite in- 


The am- 
bitious. 


The wise. 


The nar- 
row- 

minded. 
4, Objecta - 
which ex- 
cite envy. 


dignation; and in justification of their exclusion in that place . 


it may be observed, that the simple fact of their being pos- 
sessed is proof of their being deserved. And their exclusion 
from the subjects of envy may be justified by the consideration 
that the envious will, in general, esteem moral excellence 
scarcely worth troubling themselves about, 

3. See the parable of the ewe lamb, addressed by Nathan to 
David. 

L 


5. Men 
likely to 
be envied. 


Equals. 


Rivals, 


146 ARISTOTLE’S [ Book. 1. 


ther they be productions or acquisitions, and re- 
spe sting which they are desirous of renown, and all 
cases of good luck; about all these nearly is envy 
felt ; and particularly about such of them as the in- 
dividuals are themselves desirous of, or think they 
ought themselves to possess, or those things in the 
possession of which they are themselves superior, or 
deficient in a trifling degree. 

Again, it is evident with whom men are envious ; 
for this has been already stated in connexion [ with 
what has gone before]; since men envy those who 
come near them in time, and place, and age, and cha- 


racter ; whence the saying, “ kindred too is conscious 


of envy*.” Men also envy those with whom they 
are at rivalry; for they are rivals of those above- 
mentioned; but of those who existed ten thousand 
years back, or who may live ten thousand years 
hence, or who are already dead, of these no one is 
the rival; nor again of those who live at the Pillars 
of Hercules*; nor of those of whom, in the opinions 
either of themselves or of others, they are greatly the 
inferiors ; nor again of those to whom they conceive 
themselves to be in a great degree superior ; with the 
like indifference do they regard those [at all en- 


. gaged | in pursuits of this description. And as men 


are affected by ambition in regard to rivals, and 
competitors, and all, in a word, who are eager after 
the same objects, it must follow that they envy these: 
in an especial manner ; whence the saying, “ potter 
envies potter.” And those who either succeed with 
difficulty, or do not succeed at all, envy those who 
succeed quickly. Again, they envy those whose ac- 
quisitions and success are a reproach to themselves, 
and these are those who are near them, or their 
equals; for it becomes evident that they do them- 
selves fail of success through their own fault, so that 

3 This apophthegm should seem to justify the caution of 
Cleobulus,—KAsdBovdos ὁ Λίνδιος ἐρωτηθεὶς ὑπό τινος τίνα δεῖ 
μάλιστα φυλάττεσθαι; εἶπεν, τῶν μὲν φίλων τὸν φθόνον, τῶν 
ὲ ἐχθρῶν τὴν ἐπιβουλήν. Stobeeus. 

4 ἸΙρὸς τοὺς ες ποδῶν, φθόνος οὐδεὶς φύεται. Philo. Hooker, 
v. ᾧ 2, p. 26. 


cHAP. Xi] RHETORIC, 147 


this, galling them, produces envy. And those who 9, 
either possess or have acquired that which it would 

become themselves to possess, or which themselves 

had at one time acquired; at least the old, on this 
account, envy the young. And those who have been 10. 

at considerable expense on an object, envy those who 

have expended little on the same object. But it is 11. 
evident both with whom, and on what occasions, and 

with what dispositions people of this sort feel plea- 

sure; for they will be delighted, having in the con- 

trary circumstances that very temper, the which 

being without, they are pained. So that if the The ora- 
iudges themselves shall have been wrought up into pete: Ὁ" 
this disposition, while those who lay claim to our eure wil 
pity or to the acquisition of some good, are such as remove 
have been described, it is evident that they will not P¥*Y- 
obtain pity at the hands of those on whom they de- 

pend for it. 


CHAP. XI. 
Of Emulation. 


Hence likewise it will be evident both with what + Emu- 
dispositions, and in regard to what objects, and of to. 
whom, persons are emulous. Because if emulation Its defini 
be “a sort of pain at the apparent’ presence of goods tion. 
which are held in honour, and which admit of one’s 

gaining them himself, in the case of those naturally 

our equals; felt, not because they are present to an- 

other, but because they are not likewise present to 

one’s self,” (on which very account emulation is a vir- It isa vis 
tuous feeling, and belongs to virtuous people, whereas Paced τὰ 
envy is a depraved feeling, and belongs to persons 

who are depraved : for the one, by motion of his emu- 


1 The merely apparent presence of this description of goods 
is sufficient to excite emulation. The character of the goods 
which this passion has as its object is entirely different from 
that which excites envy and indignation. 

u 2 


Persons 
likely to 
feel emu- 
lation, 


The 
young 
and high- 
spirited. 


2. Those 
whom 
others 
esteem, 


3. Whose 
ancestry 
or rela- 
tions are 
worthy. 


4, Thin 
which = 
objects of 
emula- 
tion. 
Virtues, 


Goods. 


Wealth, 
ete, 


5, Per- 
g0ns who 
are ob- 
jects of 
emula- 
tion. 


6. All 
whom 
men wish 
to resem- 
ble, 


148 ARISTOTLE 8 | BOOK 11. 


lation, sets himself to acquire the good; while the 
other, by motion of his envy, sets himself to cause 
the dispossession of his neighbour). It must be, then, 
that persons who deem themselves worthy of goods 
which they do not possess, are apt to feel emulation ; 
since no one arrogates to himself that which appears 
impossible: and hence the young and the high-spirit- 
ed are thus affected ; and also those to whom belong 
goods of such a description as to be worth the atten- 
tion of men in repute; these are wealth, number of 
friends, office, and whatever other goods are of this 
kind ; for men feel emulous of such goods ; as though, 
because they properly belong to such as are men of 
virtuous dispositions, it were matter of absolute right 
that themselves should be virtuous. Again, those are 
emulous whom others esteem worthy of such goods: 
and those again whose ancestors, or relations, or in- 
timate friends, or whose tribe or city is held in es- 
teem about any point, such persons‘are apt to feel 
emulation on that-point ; for they think they belong 
properly to them, and that themselves are worthy of 
them. 

But if those goods are matter of emulation which 
are held in esteem, it must of course follow that the 
virtues are of this description ; and whatever things 


have a tendency to aid and benefit others ; since peo- 


ple honour virtuous people, and those who benefit 
them: likewise that all goods whatsoever, the enjoy- 
ment of which accrues to one’s neighbours, are of this 
sort ; for instance, wealth, and beauty, rather than 
health. 

And it will also be evident who the persons are 
who are objects of emulation ; since they who possess 
these, and the like goods, become objects of emulation ; 
these goods are such as have been mentioned, for ex- 
ample, courage, wisdom, sovereignty ; for those who 
are sovereigns have a power of benefiting many. 
Generals, orators, all, in fact, who have abilities this 
way [are objects of emulation]. And those whom 
many wish to resemble, or who have many acquaint- 
ances, or many friends. Or those whom many admire, 


CHAP. ΧΙ. RHETORIC. 149 


or whom they do themselves admire. And those on 7. or ad- 
whom are pronounced the praises and encomia of ™¥® τ 
poets and panegyrists”. Persons, however, of a con- Contempt 
trary description, men despise ; for contempt is the pide on ag 
contrary of emulation ; and the despising of the being emula- - 
emulous. And it must be that persons so affected as tion. 
to emulate certain persons, or to be themselves ob- 
jects of emulation, are apt to feel contempt for those 
things and persons who possess evils the contraries 
of those goods which are the objects of emulation. 
On which account men frequently despise the fortun- 
ate, when their good fortune is unconnected with 
those goods which are held in esteem. 

Of the means, then, by which the passions are ex- 
cited in the breast, and are allayed, one of the sources* 
out of which means of persuasion arise, of these we 
now have treated. 


CHAP. XII. 
Of the Passions and Habits of the Young". 


LET us next go over in detail the dispositions? of 1. Charac- 
men; considering of what kind of a turn they are, in a ae 
reference to their passions, habits, ages, and fortunes, 


2 This description of orators were justly said to be λογογρά- 
got, (λόγους γραφεὶν 2) indeed it appears from the third book, 
that epideictic orations im general were intended. rather for pe- 
rusal than recitation. Speaking of the style of epideictic 
orators, he remarks, τὸ ἔργον αὐτῆς ἀνάγνωσις, lib. 111. cap. 
xii. § 6. 

3 Viz. πίστις παθητικὴ, the third branch of πίστις ἐντέχνη. 
See book i. chap. ii. § 3, 4, 5. 

! This discussion of the dispositions of persons, under a few 
of the most striking circumstances of life, was promised in the 
first book (chap. x. ᾧ 11). 

2 “The word ἤθη, taken in its utmost extent, includes every 
thing that is habitual and characteristic ; but itis often used in 
a limited sense, for the habitual temper or disposition.”” Twin- 
ing. Probably ‘* humour,” in the sense in which it has been 
defined by Ben Jonson, comes nearer to ἦθος than any word 
in our language -— 


2. Vary 
in. their 
i. Pas- 
sions. 

iit. Habits. 


i. Ages. 
iv. For- 
tunes. 


3. Cha- 
racter of 
the 
young. 
Ardent 


Tncon- 
stant. 


4, 


Irritable. 


7. San- 
guine. 


150 A RISTOTLE’S [Book 11. 


I call anger, lust, and the like, by the name pas- 
sions; a subject of which we have treated above. By 
the name habits, I designate virtues and vices: and 
of these we have treated above, both as to the points 
on which men form deliberate choice, and that towhich 
they give birth in action. And the ages are youth, 
prime, and old age. By fortune I mean, high birth, 
and wealth, and abilities, and their opposites; and, 
in one word, good and bad fortune. 

Now the young are in their dispositions prone to 
desire, and of a character to effect what they desire.. 
And they are in the highest degree apt to pursue the 
pleasures of love above all desires about which the 
body is concerned, and in these they are incontinent. 
But they are prone to change, and fastidious in the 
objects of their desires. And they desire with earn- 
estness, but speedily cease to desire ; for their wishes 
are keen, without being durable; just like the hunger 
and thirst of the sick. And they are passionate and 
irritable, and of a temperament to follow the impulse. 
And they cannot overcome their anger ; for by reason 
of their ambition they do not endure a slight, but 
become indignant, and fancy themselves injured: and 
they are ambitious indeed of honour, but more so of 


. Victory ; for youth is desirous of superiority, and vic- 


tory is a sort of superiority. And of both these are 
they desirous in a higher degree than of gain; but 
least of all are they desirous of gain%, by reason of 
their having never yet experienced want; just ac- 
cording to the proverbial saying of Pittacus to Am- 
phiaraus*. And they do not view things in a bad 


When some one peculiar quality 
Doth so possess a man, that it doth draw 
All his affects, his spirits, and his powers, 
In their confluctions, all to run one way, 
This may be truly said to be a humour. 


Every Man out of his Humour: where see Whalley’s note. 


8 Power pleases the violent and proud: wealth delights the 
placid and timorous. Youth therefore flies at power, and age 
grovels after riches. Johnson’s Journey to the Hebrides, 
p- 344. 

4 Iv is not known what éhis saying of Pittacus was. 


CHAP. x11.] RHETORIC. 151 


light, but in a good, by reason of their never having 
yet been witnesses of much depravity. And they 


are credulous, from their never having yet been ! 


much imposed on. And they are sanguine in their 
expectations ; for like those who are affected by 
wine, so the young are warmed by their nature ; and 
at the same time from their having never yet met 
with many repulses. Their life, too, for the most 
part, is one of hope; for hope is of that which is 
yet to be, while memory is of that which is passed : 
but to the young that which is yet to be, is long ; but 
that which has passed, is short; for in the early days 
of life they think they remember nothing, while they 
hope for every thing; and they are easily imposed 
on, for the reason which has been stated; because 
they soon cherish expectation. And they are brave 
‘rather to an excess; for they are irritable and san- 
guine, qualities, the one whereof cancels fear, and 
the other inspires courage; for while no one who is 
affected by anger ever is afraid, the being in hope of 
some good is a thing to give courage. And they are 
bashful; for they do not as yet conceive the honour- 
able to be any thing distinct, but they have been 
educated only under the established usage of the 
state. And they are high-minded ; for they have not 
as yet been humbled by the course of life, but are 
unexperienced in peremptory circumstances: again, 
high-mindedness is the deeming one’s self worthy of 
much; and this belongs to persons of sanguine ex- 
pectations. And they prefer succeeding in an hon- 
ourable sense than in points of expediency ; for they 
live more in conformity to moral feeling than to mere 
calculations®; and calculation is of the expedient, 
moral excellence, however, of that which is honour- 
able. Again, they are fond of friends and companions 
rather than of their other compeers in age, by reason 
of their delighting in social intercourse, and of their 
not yet deciding on any thing in reference to what is 


5 Λογισμὸς is that one of the seven causes of human action 
which /east affects the ycung. They usually act from Iunos or 


ἐπιθυμίᾳ. 


Their life 
is one of 
hope. 


12. With 
a sense of 
honour. 


13. Social, 


14. Their 
errors are 
on the 
side of 


. &xcess. 


15. Their 
insults 
are mis- 
chievous 
not ma- 
licious. 
Prone to 
pity. 


16. Are 
gracefully 
facetious. 


1, Charae- 
ter of the 
old. 


{52 ARISTOTLE’S [sook- τ 


expedient ; so that they do not decide on their friends 
[upon that principle]. And all their errors are on 
the side of excess and too great earnestness, in con- 
travention of Chilo’s rule; for the young carry every 
thing to an excess; for their friendships are in ex- 
cess, their hatreds are in excess, and they do every 
thing else with the same degree of earnestness ; they 
think also that they know every thing, and firmly 
asseverate that they do; for this is the cause of their 
pushing every thing to an excess. And, in their 
trespasses, they trespass on the side of wantonness, 
and not of malice. They are likewise prone to pity, 
from their conceiving every one to be good, and 
more worthy than in fact he is®; for they measure 
others by the standard of their own guiltlessness ; so 
that they conceive them to be suffering what they do 
not deserve. And they are fond of mirth, on which 
account they are also of a facetious turn’; for face- 
tiousness is chastened forwardness of manner. 
Such, then, is the disposition of the young. 


CHAP. XIII. 
Of the Passions and Habits of those advanced in Life. 


Burt those who are advanced in life, and who have 
passed their prime, are of dispositions in most: points 


6 Vide note 3, chap. xiii. p. 154. 

7 Ἑὐτράπελοι. I know no word in our language of similar 
moral signification in which the metaphorical allusion to Τρέπω, 
the turn, or easy adaptation of manner, is preserved, unless in- 
deed Minshew be correct in his etymology of Buxome, which, 
according to him, is derived from the German word booghsaem, 
i. FLEXILIS, and refers to the article pliant for further explan- 
ation. If this etymology be true, then Milton’s expression, 
buxom, blythe, and debonnaire, though applied rather to female 
than manly grace, will convey a netion of what is here in- 
tended by Aristotle. But see Minshew, p. 106, edit. 1627. 
In the Ethics, Ὁ. 4, he compares εὐτραπελία to gracefulness of 
person; which, in conformity with the notions of most ancient 
writers, he seems to think only discoverable in motion, not in 
rest. Compare also “ “’rito, or a Dialogue on Beauty.” 


OMAP. χιπ ἢ RHETORIC. 153 


the very opposite of these. Since by reason of their 
having lived many years, and having been deceived 
in a greater number of instances, and having mis- 
taken, by reason, too, that the majority of human 
affairs are but worthless, they neither positively as- 
severate any thing, and they err in every thing more 
on the side of defect than they ought. And they 
always “suppose,” but never “know” certainly ; 
and, questioning every thing, they always subjoin a 


“ perhaps,” or ἃ “ possibly.” And they talk of every 1 


thing in this undecisive tone, asserting nothing de- 
cisively. And they are apt to view things in an 


unfavourable light ; for a disposition thus to view * 


things, is the judging of every thing on the worse 
‘side. Moreover they are apt to be suspicious from 
distrust, and they are distrustful from their expe- 
‘rience. And on this account they neither love nor 
hate with great earnestness ; but, conformably to the 
remark of Bias, they both love as though about to 
hate, and hate as though about to love. And they 
“are pusillanimous, from their having been humbled 
by the course of life; for they raise their desires to 
nothing great or vast, but to things only which con- 
duce to support of life. And they are illiberal; for 
property is one of the necessaries; and they are at 
‘the same time aware, from their experience, of the 
difficulty of its acquisition, and of the ease with 
which it is lost. And they are timid and apprehen- 
sive of every thing; for their disposition is the 
reverse of that of the young; for they have been 
chilled by years, but the young are warm in their 
temperament; so that their age has paved the way 
to timidity ; for fear is a certain kind of chill. And 
they are attached to life, and particularly at its last 
closing day, from the circumstance that desire is of 
some object which is absent, and that men more espe- 
cially desire that of which they stand in need. And 
_ they have self-love more than is fitting ; for this too 
is a kind of littleness of spirit. And they live in a 
greater degree than they ought by the standard of 
expediency, and not of what is honourable, by reason 


The old 
are doubt 


Cautious 


5. Cow- 
ardly, 


6. Illibe- 
ral, 


7. Timid 


8. Tena- 
cious of 


9. Selfish 


13. Weak 
in anger, 
but keen. 


Live from 
calcula- 
tion. 

14, Err 
on theside 
of malice. 
15. Are 
apt to 
pity, 


from 
weakness. 


Queru- 
lous. 


154 ARISTOTLE’S | BooK 11. 


of their self-love: for what is expedient is good rela- 
tively, to one’s self ; but what is honourable is good 
absolutely. And they are insensible to shame, rather 
than liable to be affected by it; for on account of 
their not holding equally in esteem the honourable 
and the expedient, they despise appearances. Again, 
they are not easily inspired with hope, on account of 
their experience ; for the majority of things are but 
paltry; wherefore the generality turn out inferior to 
the expectation ; and once more on account of their 
timidity [they are apt to despond]. And they live 
more in memory than in hope; for the remnant of 
life is brief, but what has passed is considerable ; and 
hope indeed is of what is to come; whereas memory 
is of things gone by: the very reason this, of their 
garrulity ; for they never cease talking of that which 
has taken place, since they are delighted in awaken- 
ing the recollections of things. And their anger is 
keen, but faint. And their desires have, some, aban- 
doned them, the others are faint; so that neither are 
they liable to the influence of desire, nor apt to act 
in conformity to it, but with a view to gain; on 
which account men of this age appear to be naturally 
temperate, for both their desires have relaxed, and 
they are enslaved to gain. And they live more by 
calculation! than by moral feeling ; for calculation is 
of expediency, but moral feeling is of virtue. And, 
in their trespasses, they trespass on the side of ma- 
lice, not of wanton insolence. The old have more- 
over atendency to pity, but not on the same principle 
with the young; for the latter are thus disposed from 
their love of human nature, the former from their 
imbecility ; since they consider the erdurance of 
every calamity at hand to them, and this was laid 
down as a principle of pity”. Whence they are que- 

1 Their principles of action are the very contraries of those 
which principally influence the young; ἔθος and λογισμός be- 
ing the usual springs of action in the man of advanced life. 

3 The two leading principles of pity were stated to be, a con- 
riction that the sufferer is undeserving what he suffers, and that 


you consider yourself liable to be placed in similar circumstances, 
It was on the former of these arinciples that the young were stated 


CHAP. xIv.| RHETORIC. 155 


rulous, and neither facetious, nor fond of mirth ; for 
querulousness is the very reverse of fondness for 
mirth. 

Such, then, are the dispositions of the young, and 
of those in advanced life*. So that, as all welcome 
an address worded to their own disposition, and a 
speaker who resembles themselves, it is clear by em- 
ploying his oration in what way the orator will ap- 
pear of this description, as regards himself and what 
he says. 


CHAP. XIV. 
Of the Dispositions of Persons in their mature Age. 


TuoseE who are in their prime will, it is evident, be 
in a mean in point of disposition between these, sub- 
tracting the excesses of each: being neither rash in 
too great a degree, (for rashness is of this description, 
i. 6. 7% excess,) nor too much given to fear, but keep- 
ing themselves right in respect to both. Neither 
placing confidence in all, nor distrusting all, but judg- 
ing rather in conformity to the truth. Neither living 
with a view solely to what is honourable, nor with 
a view only to expediency, but with a respect to both. 
And conformed neither to penurious parsimony, nor 
to extravagance, but to what is fitting. -With the 
same equality do they carry themselves also in respect 
to anger and to desire. And they are of a tempering 
coolness joined with spirit, and are spirited not with- 


to be apt to pity; because they take a favourable view of hu- 
man nature. The old are equally liable to be affected by that 
passion, but it is on the latter principle ; for though they view 
human nature in an unfavourable light, yet have they so strong 
a sense of their own liability to suffering, that they are led to 
commiserate others. Compare chap. viii. § 7; and chap. xii. ὁ 15. 

3. In the Rambler, No. 196, the change of sentiments usual 
as men advance from youth to age is beautifully traced; and 
the whole paper affords a striking illustration of the subject 
treated in this and the preceding chapter. 


16. How 

the orator 
must use 

these cha 

racters, 


1. Charace 
ter of the 
matured, 


They are 
moderate. 


3. 


Are spi- 
rited with 
coolness. 


4, Prime 
of life for 
the body 

and mind. 


1. Charac- 
ter of men 
of high 
birth. 

2. Ambi- 
tious. 


Contemp- 
tuous, 


8. Dis- 
tinction 
between 
the noble 
and gene- 
rous. 
The ge- 
nerations 
of mar 


156 ARISTOTLE’S | BooK π 


out temperate coolness: for in the young and in 
elderly persons these qualities are separated; since 
the young are spirited, and of an intemperate rash- 
ness, while elderly persons are of a chastened spirit, 
and timid. And thus, in a word, whatever advan- 
tages youth and age have divided between them, the 
middle age possesses both ; and in whatever respects 
they are either in excess or defect, in all these it holds 
a mean and what is fitting. | 

But the body is in its prime from the age of thirty 
to five and thirty; and the mind about the age of 
forty-nine. Let thus much, then, have been said re- 
specting youth, and old and mature age, and the dis- 
positions which they severally are of. 


CHAP. XV. 
The characteristic Dispositions of Persons of high birth. 


Bort let us treat of the goods of fortune next in order, 
so many of them at least as influence the dispositions 
of men in any particular way. 

Now it is the disposition of high birth, that its pos- 
sessor is more ambitious than others; for all, when 
any possession is realized to them, are wont to ac- 
cumulate upon it. But high birth is nobility of an- 
cestry ; and it is apt to indulge in contempt even of 
those who are as good as its own ancestors ; because 
distinctions, in proportion as they are more remote, 
rather than recent, are held in greater esteem, and 
afford a ready plea for arrogance. 

But, noble, is an appellation referring to excellence 
of birth; whereas, generous refers to one’s not de- 
generating from the nature [of his ancestry |; which, 
generally speaking, is not the case with the noble, 
but the majority of them are ordinary persons. For 
there is a kind of richness of produce in the genera- 
tions of man, just as there is in that which arises from 


CHAP. XVI.] nHETORIC. 157 


the land; and at times, should the stock be good, 
there arise in a family at intervals extraordinary per- 
sons ; and afterwards it again relaxes. And a fami- 
ly of brilliant talent run wild into dispositions bor- 
dering on madness!; as in the instances of the 
descendants of Alcibiades, and Dionysius the elder : 
and one of sedate wisdom, into stupidity and dul- 
ness; as in the instances of the descendants of Ci- 
mon, and Pericles, and Socrates. 


CHAP. XVI. 
The Dispositions consequent on Wealth. 


Any one, without any great penetration, may distin- 
guish the dispositions consequent on wealth; for 
[its possessors] are insolent and overbearing, from 
being tainted in a certain way by the getting of 
their wealth. For they are affected as though they 
possessed every good; since wealth is a sort of 
standard of the worth of other things ; whence every 
thing seems to be purchaseable by it. And they 
are affectedly delicate and purse-proud; they are 
thus delicate on account of their luxurious lives, and 
the display they make of their prosperity. They are 
purse-proud, and violate the rules of good breeding 3, 

1 Mavixwtepa. In connexion with this word it should be 
borne in mind, that the Greeks were accustomed to consider 
every kind of enthusiastic impetuosity as a species of madness. 
See Twining on the Poetics, note 140. 

2 Σόλοικοι, the inhabitants of Soli in Cilicia, whose corrup- 
tions of the Greek language became proverbial. The word 
was used also to designate those who were guilty of impro- 
priety in conduct, as well as in expression. Massinger, in enu- 
merating some instances of ill breeding, uses the expression. 


He ne’er observed you 
To twirl a dish about, you did not like of, 
All being pleasing to you; or to take 
A say of venison or stale fowl by your nose, 
Which is a solecism at another’s table, etc. 
Unnatural Combat, act iii, sc. a. 


See too Ben Jonson’s Fox, vol. iii. p. 275. 


compared 
to the soii 


1. Charae- 
ter of the 
wealthy. 


Insolent. 


3. Arro- 
gant of 
place and 
power, 


4. Differ- 
ence be- 
tween the 
newly 
rich and 
those who 
have been 


158 ARISTOTLE’S [Book I. 


from the circumstance that every one is wont to 
dwel. upon that which is beloved and admired by 
him, and because they think that others are emulous 
of that, of which they are themselves. But at the 
same time they are thus affected reasonably enough ; 
for many are they who need the aid of men of pro- 
perty. Whence, too, that remark of Simonides 
addressed to the wife of Hiero respecting the wealthy 
and the wise; for when she asked him, “ whether it 
were better to have been born wealthy or wise,” he 
replied, “ wealthy; for,” he said, “he used to see 
the wise hanging on at the doors of the wealthy.” 
And [it is a characteristic of the rich] that they 
esteem themselves worthy of being in office; for 
they consider themselves possessed of that on ac- 
count of which they are entitled to be in office. And, 
in a word, the disposition of the rich is that of a fool 
amid prosperity. 

However, the dispositions of those who are but 
lately rich, and of those who have been so from of 
old, are different; inasmuch as those who have re- 
cently become rich? have all these faults in a greater 
and a worse degree ; for the having recently become 


so from of rich is as it were an inexpertness in wealth. And 


old, 


they are guilty of offences, not of a malicious nature, 
but such as are either offences of contumely or in- 
temperance; for instance, in the case of assault or 
adultery. 


3 It is on this principle that Clytemnestra congratulates Cas- 
sandra on being the slave of an ancient family, rather than one 
recently advanced in the world :— 

ἀρχαιοπλούτων δεσποτῶν πολλὴ χάρις" 
οἵ δ᾽, οὔποτ᾽ ἐλπίσαντες, ἤμησαν καλῶς, 
ὦμοι τε δούλοις πάντα, καὶ παρὰ στάθμην. 


fEsch. Agam. 1010. : 


Vide illustrations in Symmons’s Translation, p. 97. See 
Johnson’s Life of Savage, p. 338, vol. vii. edit. 1823, of his 
works; Examples, etc. See Ausch. Prom. Vinct. 35. 


ἅπας δὲ τραχύς, ὅστις ἂν νέον κρατῇ. 


CHAP. XVII. | RHETORIC. 159 


CHAP. XVII. 
Of the Dispositions of Men in Power, and of the Fortunate. 


AND in the same way on the subject of power, the 
most striking almost of its dispositions are evident ; 
for of these power has some in common with wealth, 
and others which are better. For men in power are 
more ambitious and more manly in their dispositions 
than the wealthy; from their aiming at all duties 
whatsoever, which from their power they have the 
means of discharging. And they are less given to 
trifling, because, from a necessity of looking carefully 
to their power, they are constrained to a diligent at- 
tention. And they comport themselves with a dig- 
nity which is conciliatory rather than repulsive; for 
their claims for dignity render them more conspicuous ; 
on which account, they bear themselves moderately : 
but conciliatory dignity is a softened and graceful 
sedateness. And, if they do transgress the bounds 
of right, it is not in small points, but in those which 
are of importance, that they are guilty. 

But good fortune, according to its constituents, is 
of the disposition of the states which have been de- 
scribed ; since those which appear to be the greatest 
instances of good fortune resolve themselves ulti- 
mately into these states: and, besides these, to the 
excellence of one’s progeny, and to personal advan- 
tages. But men are usually more overbearing and 
inconsiderate in consequence of prosperity. But one 
disposition, and that most excellent, is a concomitant 
of good fortune, viz. that the fortunate are lovers of 
the gods, and are disposed toward the deity with a 
sort of confidence, in consequence of the goods which 
have accrued to them from fortune. 

The subject, then, of the dispositions as they con- 
form to age and to fortune has been discussed ; for 
from the opposites of my remarks the opposite sub- 
jects will be evident; the subject, for example, of the 
disposition of a poor, or unfortunate person, or of one 
out of power. 


1, Charao 
ter of men 
in power 
resembles 
the rich ; 


5. Charao 
ter of the 
fortunate. 


6. Over- 
bearing, 


Yet re- 
ligious, 


1. That 
there are 
certain 
κοινὰ 


εἴδη. 


16. ARISTOTLE’S {Boom 1 


CHAP. XVIII. 


That there are some Topics common to all the species of 
Oratory. 


But since the use of persuasive orations has a refer- 
ence to the forming a decision (since on questions 
which we are acquainted with, and have decided on, 
there is no further need of an oration) ; and as this is 
their use, whether addressing his speech to a single 
iudividual, the speaker endeavours to exhort or dis- 
suade (which they do who admonish or persuade ; 
since that individual is in no less degree a judge; 
because the person [be he who he may |, whomsoever 
we want to persuade is, once for all, a judge); and 
also if one be speaking against an adversary, or on 
any supposed question, it has equally [a reference to 
decision]; (for one needs must employ a speech, and 
sweep away objections against which, as against an 
adversary, he directs his address); this is just as much 
the case in demonstrative oratory (since the speech 
commends itself to the listener just as though toa 
judge). But he alone is strictly a judge, who decides 
on the questions at issue in civil! controversies: since 
both forensic questions, and those on which men de- 
liberate, are agitated as to how they stand. But of 
dispositions, as they are affected by the constitutions 
of states, we have spoken above. So that the means 
will now have been distinctly unfolded, both how, 
and by the use of what things, we may render our 
addresses ethical. 


4. But as there was, in each species of orations, a cer- 


tain distinct end proposed; and as respecting all of 


. them some ideas and propositions have been ascer- 


tained, out of which the deliberative, demonstrative, 
and judicial orators deduce their means of persuading ; 
and as, in addition to these, the means by which it is 
possible for us to render our speeches ethical, have 
been developed; it merely remains, that we go over 


* Under the word πολιτικὸς, he seems, according to Victe- 
rius, to embrace judicial as well as deliberative questions, 


CHAP. XVIII.] - RHETORIC. 16) 


in detail the topics which are common to the three 
species of oratory”: for it is necessary that every 
orator should connect with his speech the topics ὁ 
possibility or impossibility ; and for some it will be 
necessary to attempt to show that certain things will 


take place, and for others that they have taken place. }) 


And again, the topic of greatness is common to all 
oratory ; for every orator, whether he exhort or dis- 
suade, praise or blame, accuse or defend, avails him- 
self of amplification and diminution. 

Let us also, after these points have been explained, 
attempt to treat of enthymems in general (if we are 
in possession of any thing on the subject) and of ex- 
amples; in order that by subjoining what remains 
we may make good our original proposal. 

But of these common topics, amplification is most 
congenial to demonstrative oratory, as has been re- 
marked ; possibility, as relating to the past, to ju- 
dicial?; since on what has been its decision is made ; 
but possibility, as relating to the future, is most con- 
genial to deliberative. 


CHAP. XIX, 
Of Things Possible and Impossible. 


First, then, let us speak of things possible and those 
which are impossible. 

If then it be possible that one contrary should ex- 
ist, or be called into existence, the other contrary will 
also appear to be possible; for instance, if it be 
possible for a man to be convalescent, it also is 
possible for him to be sick; for the effective power 
of contraries, inasmuch as they are contraries, is the 

? We may, if we please, consider this as the ἀπόδοσις of the 
sentence ; and all the previous c_auses as so many distinct pa- 
rentheses ; as the author of the Analysis has done, p. 101. 

* This discussion of possibility was promised in the course 
of what he said on judicial oratory, book i. chap. xii. § 2. 

M 


3. They 
816 four iu 
number. 
i. The pos- 
sible or 
impossi- 
6. s 
4. ii. Whe- 
ther the 
fact has 
or has not 
taken 
place. 
lii. Whe- 
ther it will 
orwillnot, 
5. iv. The 
eat and 
ems, 


ye First of 
the possi- 
ble ae 
impossi- 
ble. 

The possi- 
ble is of 
which the 
contrary 
ispossible, 


The end, 


6. The 
subse- 
quent. 


7. Things 
which we 
love. 


8. Sub- 
jects of art 
orscience. 


10. Where 
the parts 
are possi- 
ble, so is 
‘the whole, 


162 ARISTOTLE’S [Boox τί. 


same. If, of two similar things, the one be possible, 
the other which is similar will be possible also. If 
the more difficult be possible, so will also that which 
iseasier. And if it be possible for a thing to be pro- 
duced in a state of excellence or beauty, it also is 
possible for it to be produced under general circum- 
stances; for it is more difficult for a building to be 


- made beautiful, than simply a building. And in 


whatever case the commencement is possible, the 
fulfilment also is possible': for of things which are 
impossible, none either take place or begin to do so; 
for instance, it neither zs the case, that the diameter 
of a square is commensurable with the side, neither 
will it ever begin to be so. Also, wherever the ful- 
filment is possible, so is the commencement; since 
every thing proceeds from a beginning. And if the 
subsequent in being or production be possible, so also 
is the antecedent: if, for example, it be possible that 
a man should be produced, so also is it that a child 
should, since it is antecedent in its production: again, 
if it be possible for a child, so is it also for a man to 
be produced; on the principle that the former is a 
commencement. ‘Things likewise are possible, of 
which there is a natural love or desire; for no one 
loves what is impossible, neither desires it, for the 
most part at least. Also, any thing which is the 
subject of an art or science, is possible both to exist 


9. and to be produced. Likewise any thing whatso- 


ever, the principle of whose production resides in 
those whom we can compel or persuade; such are 
those whose superiors, or lords, or friends we are. 
And wherever the parts are possible, so also is the 
whole. Wherever again the whole is possible, so also 
are the parts. generally speaking: for if the latchet, 
the forepart, and the upperleather of the shoe admit 
of being brought into being, so also do the shoes 
themselves: and if the shoes, then also the latchet, 


1 Thus it is argued, that if all may receive the ἀρχὴ of re- 
generation, baptism; all may receive its τέλος, salvation. 
Baptism is expressly called by St. Basil, ἀρχὴ μοὶ ζωῆς τὸ 
βάπτισμα. De Spir. Sanct. 6. 10, 


CHAP. XIX. | RHETORIO, 103 


the forepart, and upperleather?; also, if the genus be 11. If the 
of the number of things possible, so also will be the $00 the 
species; and if the species, so also the genus: for species; 
example, if a vessel can be produced, so can a and vice 
trireme; and if a trireme, so can a vessel. And if, }5"°* 
of things which have a natural relation to each other, 

the one be possible, so is also the other; as if the 

double be possible, so also is the half; and if the 

half, so also is the double. And if a thing admits of 18. Fs 
being brought into being without art or preparation, hoy rig 
ἃ fortiori it will admit of it by the help of art and with art. 
attention. On which principle too it has been re- 

marked by Agatho, “ Yes, truly, in some things you 

must fare just as fortune goes ; other things there are 

which attach to us by necessity and art.” Also, if 14. Ifin- 
any thing be possible to persons who are worse, or tae 
our inferiors, or less prudent, much more will it also can supe- 
be possible to their opposites ; just as Isocrates said, ‘rs. 
that “it would be strange if Euthynus learnt it, and 

he were not able to find it out.” 

With regard, however, to things impossible, it is 15.Things 
plain that they result from the contraries of the ‘lc anal 
above-mentioned principles. opposite, 

Questions as to the actual occurrence of any thing, 16. Se- 
are to be viewed under the following considerations. ape 
For, in the first place, if that which had a less natural taken - 
tendency to occur, has occurred ; then may that have place, 
occurred which had a greater tendency. And if that 17. When 
which is wont to take place subsequently, has taken (8 subse- 

‘ quent has 
place, that also has taken place which usually does happen- 
primarily: if, for instance, a man has forgotten, then ed. 
also must he at some time have learnt that [of which 
he is now forgetful]. Also, if a man was able and 18. If the 
willing, he achieved the deed ; for all men when, being sailing. 
willing, they have power, proceed to act; for there is 
nothing in their way. If, moreover, a man was willing 
and had no external impediment. If, again, the act 19. And 


3 The admirers of Sterne will do well, on reading this pas- 
sage, to borrow a hint from him, and consult the learned Al- 
bertus Rubenius upon it, or at least some one of the many great 
authorities mentioned chap. 19, vol. vi. of Tristram Shandy. 


m2 


under the 
influence 
ef anger 
or desire. 


164 ARISTOTLE’S ἴβοοκ II. 


was possible, and he was under the influence of an- 
ger’. And if it was possible, and he [the person in 
question] was influenced by lust ; for, generally speak- 
ing, men, if they have the power, execute that of 
which they are desirous; the bad from weakness of 
principle ; and the virtuous because they desire ob- 


20. Ifhe jects compatible with virtue. Also, if a man was on 


was on the 
eve of do- 
ing it, etc. 

21. 


22.Thin 
which τὰ 
have not 
happened 
are to be 
inferred 
from the 
opposite. 
Thirdly, 
what will 


passions. 


24. If the 
antece- 
dents 
have hap- 
pened. 


the point of bringing the thing into action and of 
doing it; since the probability is, that he who was on 
the eve of acting, did moreover really act. Also, if 
all those things have taken place which naturally oc- 
cur, either as preparatory to, or on account of the oc- 
currence in question ; as for instance, if it has light- 
ened, it has also thundered; and if he attempted it, 
he has also achieved it. And if all those things 
which naturally occur subsequently, and that on ac- 
count of which the deed is done, have taken place, 
then has also the prior to them and that which is the 
cause taken place: if, for instance, it has thundered, 
it has also lightened ; and if he acted, he also attempt- 
ed. Of all this number there are some thus subse- 
quent of necessity; others however merely generally. 

With regard, however, to the non-occurrence of 
things, the considerations applicable will be plain from 
the contraries of those above stated. 

Also with regard to what will happen, matters will 
become evident from the same considerations; for 
that which is within the power and the wishes of any 
one will take place. Also things which are subjects 


_ of lust, anger, and reasonings, accompanied by power 4. 


On this account, too, if persons be on the onset or on 
the eve of doing any thing, it will be done: for, ge- 
nerally speaking, things which are on the point of 
taking place occur, rather than those which are not. 
Also, if all those things have preceded which natur- 
ally occur before; for instance, if it lowers, there is 
a probability that it will rain. Also, if that has hap- 


ened which is on account of the thing in question, 
95, P g in qd 


3 Compare chap. v. § 3, 4. 
4 Fulmen est ubi cum potestate habitat iracundia. Publius. 
Syrus. 


CMAP. XIx.] RHETORIC. 365 


it is probable that that will also happen ; for instance, 
if there be a foundation, it is probable that there will 
also be a house. 

The subject of greatness and smallness in regard 26. 
to affairs, also of the degrees of greater and less, and pip digs 
of things great and small in general, is clear to us from great and 
what has been said. For, in the discussion of deliber- small. 
ative oratory, the doctrine of the greatness of goods 
has been stated, and respecting the greater and less 
in the abstract. So that as with respect to each class 
of speeches the proposed end 1s a good ; (for instance, 
the expedient,—the honourable,—and the just ;) it is 
evident that by every orator, his means of amplifica- 
tion are to be arrived at through the medium of these. 

But to institute, besides this, a further inquiry into 27, 
the subject of greatness and of excess in the abstract, 

is to talk idly; since particular cases are more com- 
pletely applicable to use than mere generalities. 

On the subject, then, of what is possible and im- 
possible,—and whether the fact has or has not oc- 
eurred,—will or will not occur, and moreover on the 
subject of greatness and smallness in regard to affairs, 
let thus much have been said. 


CHAP. XX, 


Of Examples ;—how many species there are of them, in 
what manner, and when we are to employ them. 


Ir remains that I treat of the means of effecting 1. Exam- 
persuasion which are common to every class of sub- Ple dis- 
: ‘ cussed. 
jects, since I have already treated of such as are 
peculiar. And these common means of persuasion 
are two in species, example and enthymem: for the 
sentiment is part of an enthymem. Let us then first 2. A spe 
treat of example; for the example is correspondent °° of in 
° ὃ A ae ° ΚΣ duction, 
to induction ; and induction is a principle. 
But of examples there are two species; for one ‘I'wosorte. 


Ist. Quot- 
thg real 
instances, 
2nd. Fa- 
bricating 


vided into 
i. wapa- 
βολὴ. 

li. λόγος. 
Example. 


4. Tllus- 
tration. 


§. Fable. 


166 ARISTOTLE’S | Book 11. 


species of example is the quoting real matters of fact 
which have actually taken place ; another is the fabri- 
cating them yourself: and of this method, one species 
is illustration, the other fable; like those of Adsop 
and the African legends.. Again!, example is some- 
what of this description, as if one were to assert that 
the state ought to set itself in order against the king, © 
and not to allow him to make himself master of Egypt ; 
and this, because aforetime Darius passed not into 
Greece, before that he had seized that country; but 
when he had seized it, he passed across; so that the 
present king, should he seize Egypt, will pass over; 
on which account he is not to be permitted. 

Illustration is of the nature of Socrates’s dis- 
courses: for instance, were one to say that it is not 
fitting that magistrates chosen by lot should be in 
office ; for it is just the same thing as though one 
were to pick out wrestlers by lot; not taking such 
as are able to contend, but those on whom the lot 
may fall: or as though men were to draw lots for 
that person of the crew whom it might befit to take 
the helm; as if it became the person on whom the 
lot fell, and not him who understood the art. 

But fable is such as that of Stesichorus in opposi- 
tion to Phalaris, and that of A¢sop in behalf of the 
demagogue. For Stesichorus, when the citizens of 
Himera had chosen Phalaris? general with absolute 
powers, and were on the eve of assigning him a body 
guard, after other things which he said, related to 
them a fable: “That a horse was sole master of a 
meadow ; but that on a stag’s coming in and spoiling 
the pasture, in his wish to be avenged of the stag, 
he asked some man whether he should be able, in 


1 He here applies the generic term to the species first men- 
tioned, viz. the citing actual matters of fact. 

? Bentley seems to suspect this story as applying to Phala- 
ris, “‘ because,’’ says he, ‘“‘ Conon, a writer in Julius Cesar’s 
time, gives us the very same narrative; but, instead of Phala- 
ris, he says it was Gelon that Stesichorus spoke of. And the 
circumstances of Gelon’s history seem to countenance Conon; 
for Gelon was in great favour and esteem with the Himere- 
ans.”’ Conon, Narrat. 42. Bentl. in Phalaris. p. 38. 


onar. xx.| RHETORIC, -67 


conjunction with him, to chastise the stag. The man 
said [that he would be able] if he would take the 
bit, and himself were to mount him with his darts. 
When, however, he had agreed to this, and the man 
was mounted, the horse, instead of being revenged, 
was himself already the slave of the man. And in 
the same way do you also (says he) look to it, lest, 
in your wish to avenge yourselves on your enemies, 
you suffer in the same way as the horse ; for already, 
through your choice of a commander with independ- 
ent power, you have the bit in your mouths: but 
if you assign him a body guard, and permit him to 
mount into the saddle, you will become, from that 
moment forth, the slaves of Phalaris.” 


And ®sop, when pleading at Samos in behalf of 6. 


a demagogue who was tried for his life, said, “‘ That 
a fox in crossing a river was thrust out of her course 
into a drain, and that, being unable to get out, she 
was harassed for a long time, many horse leeches 
having got hold of her; but a hedgehog wandering 
by, when he saw her, taking compassion on her, 
asked whether he should pick off the horse leeches 
from her; that the fox however would not permit 
him; but on his asking why, she replied, ‘ Because 
these are indeed already filled from me, and now 
suck but a little blood; if, however, you should pick 
them off, others, who are hungry, coming up will 
drain off the little blood which remains. But (said 
he), Oh Samians, thus also does this man no longer 
injure you; for he is wealthy: should you, however, 
put him to death, others who are poor will come, 
who will exhaust you while they filch the public 
money.” ; 

But fables are adapted to deliberative oratory, and 
possess this advantage; that to hit upon facts which 
have occurred in point is difficult; but with regard 
to fables it is comparatively easy. For an orator 
ought to construct them just as he does his illustra- 
tions, if he be able to discover the point of similitude, 
a thing which will be easy if he be of a philosophical 


7. Fables 
are suited 
to the de- 
liberative 
orator: 


8. being 
easy. 


9. He who 
has not 
enthy- 
mems will 
use exam- 
ples as 
proofs, 
and put 
them first. 
He who 
has en- 
thymems 
uses ex- 
amples as 
testimo- 
nies, and 
uts them 
t. 


168 ARISTOTLE’S ; BOOK 11; 


turn of mind, Cases, then, in the shape of fabies, 
are the easier to bring forward; but those are more 
availing with a view to deliberation, which are put 
upon the ground of facts; because, generally speak- 
ing, the future resembles the past‘. 

It will, moreover, be right for one who has not 
enthymems to employ his examples like positive 
proofs; since the persuasive efficacy of your speech 
will be produced by them: but one who possesses 
[enthymems | should employ them like evidence, put- 
ting them forward after his enthymems, in way of a 
conclusion. Because, if they be put first, they bear 
resemblance to induction; and induction, except in 
few instances, is not proper to rhetoric; whereas 
when put in at the end, they resemble evidence ; and 
a witness in every case influences belief. On which 
account, there is moreover a necessity imposed on 
him who puts them first of citing ‘many; for him, 
however, who states them in conclusion even one is 
sufficient ; for a credible witness, though but single, 
is serviceable. 

The number, then, of the species of examples, 
how many they are, and how and when they are to 


‘be used, has been stated. 


3 He again remarks on the facility here ascribed to minds 
of a philosophical turn, when, in speaking of metaphors, he 
remarks, τὸ ὅμοιον Kai ἐν πολὺ διέχουσι ϑεωρεῖν, εὐστόχου, lib, 
iii. cap. xi. § 5. 

4 This is the principle on which he has all along recom- 
mended example as more peculiarly available to the views οἵ 
the deliberative orator. At the end of his illustrations of tle 
subject of demonstrative rhetoric, after stating amplification to 
be more proper to it than either of the other common means 
of persuasion, he says, τὰ παραδείγματα τοῖς συμβουλευτικοῖς" 
ἐκ yao τῶν προγεγονότων τὰ μέλλοντα καταμαντευόμενοι Kpi- 
νομεν, lib. i. cap. ix. § 40. Neither, says he, (cap. iv. § 8,) 
ought the orator to rely on the result of his own observation, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἀναγκαῖον καὶ τῶν παρὰ τοῖς ἄλλοις εὑρημένων LaTopiKds 
εἶναι, πρὸς τὴν περὶ τούτων σνμβουλήν. 


OMAP. XX1.} RHETORIC. 169 


CHAP. XXI. 


Of Moral Sentirrents,—what they are, and of how many 
species,—how they are to be employed,—and what advan- 
tages they possess. 


On the subject of the use of maxims, after it has 
been stated what a maxim is, it will most easily be- 
come clear both in what cases, on what occasions, and 
what persons it befits to avail themselves of the 
enunciation of maxims in their speeches. 

Now the maxim is an assertion, and yet not re- 
specting particulars, as what kind of person Iphi- 
crates was, but on some general subject; neither is 
it on every general subject ', as, that what is straight 
is opposed to what is curved; but it is respecting as 
many subjects as moral conduct is concerned about, 
and as are objects of choice or avoidance in acting. 
So that, as the enthymem is a form of reasoning 
nearly { confined 7 to this description of subjects, both 
the conclusions of enthymems and their premises, 
after the syllogistic form has been done away, be- 
come maxims*., ‘Take an instance: “A man who is 


1 Having told you that maxims are certain general propo- 
sitions, he cautions you against supposing that every general 
proposition deserves this appellation. For example, mathe- 
matical truths are asserted in propositions, general enough it 
is true, which however do not come up to the notion which 
Aristotle would have you form of the γνώμη. I hardly know 
whether it be allowable to attempt an explanation of Aristotle 
from a popular comedy ; but those readers who remember the 
School for Scandal, may probably derive some illustration of 
this subject from the ‘ sentiments’ there put in the mouth of 
Joseph Surface; e.g. “ The heart that is conscious of its own 
integrity, is ever slow to credit another’s treachery.” Act iv. 
scene 3, 

? In other words, the maxim is to the enthymem what pro- 
positions are to syllogisms. Not to every enthymem does the 
γνώμη hold this relation, but to such only as are σ΄ nversant 
with “the actions and passions of common life.” Aristotle 
has not ventured to tell us that a// enthymems relate to these 
subjects; he says only that ‘‘ nearly” all of them are so cme 
versant ; περὶ τυιούτων ἐστὶ σχεδόν. 


1. Maxim, 
γνώμη. 


2. Its defi - 
nition, 


Conclu- 
sions of 
most en- 
thymems 
are max- 
ims, 


8. Maxims 
are of four 
kinds, 


4. i, μετ᾽ 
ἐπιλόγου. 
il. ἄνευ 

ἐπιλόγου. 


5. 


6. Those 
μετ᾽ ἐπι- 
λόγου are 
either, 
Ist, part 
of an en- 
thymem ; 
_ or 2nd. 
Enthy- 
menioatic, 


170 ARISTOTLE’S [Boox 1. 


in his sound mind never ought to educate his chil- 
dren so as to be too highly skilled*.” Now this is a 
maxim: but if the reason, and the cause why he 
should not do so, be added, the whole [conjointly | wfll 
become an enthymem; thus, ‘‘ ————— for besides 
the indolence which they contract, they will attach 
to themselves the bitter jealousy of the citizens.” 
Again, this: “There is not a man who in every 
respect is happy‘:” and the following: “There is 
not one of all mankind who is free®,” are maxims: 
and the last becomes an enthymem, if added to the 
following proposition, “ —-—— for either he is the 
slave of money or of fortune.” 

If, then, the maxim be what it has been described, 
there will necessarily be four kinds of maxims: for 
either they will be with the annexed reason, or with- 
out it. Now the maxims which need proof are all 
such as assert any thing which contravenes received 
opinion, or is doubtful; but those which state nothing 
contrary to people’s notions [do well enough | with- 
out the addition of proof. And of these last it can- 
not but be that some will need no proof®, from their 
having been previously known ; as, “ The best thing 
for a man, as it seems to me at least, is health ;’—be- 
cause to nine-tenths of mankind this seems to be the 
case: and that others simultaneously with their being 
uttered become evident to such as turn their attention 
to them ; as, ‘ There is no lover who does not always 
love.” And again, of those which have proof sub- 
joined, some are a part of an enthymem, just as, “ A 
man who is in his sound mind never ought,” etc. 
Others are essentially enthymems, and not part of 
an enthymem ; the which obtain more than any 
other species. And these are all those in which the 
reason for what is asserted appears wrought in, as 

3 Euripides, Medea, 294. 

4 From a lost drama of Euripides, entitled Sthenobeea. 

§ Euripides, Hecuba, 864. 

® I have ventured thus to render ἐπίλογος - for that such is 
Aristotle’s meaning, is evident from his having himself used 


ἀπόδειξις, at the beginning of the section, to denote the same 
thing. 


ChA. XXI.| RHETORIC. 171 


in this maxim: “ Being yourself a mortal, do not 
cherish immortal wrath :”—for the assertion that, 
* one ought not always to cherish wrath,” is a maxim; 
that, however, which is added, viz. “because you 
are a mortal,” states the reason why. Similar to 
which is the following: “ It is fitting that a mortal 
conceive mortal notions, not that a being destined to 
death should think of what is immortal ’.” 

From what has been said it has then become evi- 
dent, as well how many the species of maxims are, 
as also to what kind of subjects they are severally 
adapted. For on subjects which may be questioned, 
or contravene received opinions, the orator must not 
use those without the reason annexed ; but let him 
either, prefixing the reason, use the conclusion as a 
maxim, thus—“ For my part, as then it neither is 
good to be exposed to envy, nor to be indolent, I 
assert that it is not good to be educated ;” or, stating 
this [ which here is the conclusion | first, swbjoin that 
which was prefixed*. Observing that on subjects 
which do not contravene received opinions, but are 
doubtful, that he annex the reason why as concisely 
as possible. And on subjects such as these the 
apophthegms of the Lacedzemonians are very suit- 
able, and sayings which have an air of mystery; as 
if one were to apply that which Stesichorus said be- 
fore the Locrians, ‘that they ought not to be inso- 
lent, lest their cigalas should sing upon the ground 9, 
The employment of maxims becomes him who is 


7 So also says Horace :— 


Quid eternis minorem 
Consiliis animum fatigas? Od. ii. 11, 11. 

A notion, by the way, which Aristotle controverts elsewhere, 
Nich. Eth. x. 7. | 

® To state the rule in the words of Hobbes, it is this—‘“ A 
sentence not manifest ought to be either inferred or confirm- 
ed; inferred, (as in the text,) confirmed thus,—A wise man 
will not have his children over-learned, (prefixing what, in the 
former disposition, had been put last,) seeing too much learning 
both softens a man’s mind, and procures him envy among his 
fellow-citizens,”’ (and subjoining what before had been prefixed.) 

® Meaning, lest their country should be so utterly devastated 
as that not a tree would remain for a cigala to sit upcn. 


These last 
are most 
approved. 


7. Maxims 
not evi- 
dent must 
have the 
reason 
prefixed 
or sub- 


joined. 


8. With 
concise - 
ness 


9. Maxims 


suit the 
old. 


10. 


11. Com- 
mon ones 


are useful. 


12. Old 
sayings. 
13. It is 
good to 
contra- 
vene ἃ 
common 
maxim. 


172 ARISTOTLE’S ἴβοοκ 11. 


rather advanced in life; and particularly as respects 
subjects about which each happens to be well inform- 
ed!°, Since for one not so advanced in age to sport 
maxims is bad taste, just as it is for him to have re- 
course to fables: and the use of them on subjects 
about which one is ignorant is silly, and argues a 
want of education. ‘There is a sufficient sign of the 
truth of this; for the boors of the country are of all 
other people most fond of hammering out maxims, 
and set them forth with great volubility. Also the 
stating generally a maxim which is, in fact, not ge- 
neral, is most especially befitting in appeals to the 
feelings, and in the act of exciting indignation; and 
then either at the beginning, or after the proof. 
Again, it is proper to avail one’s self of maxims 
which are current and common, if they be of any 
service ; for from their being common they appear to 
be correct, as though every one acknowledged their 
truth!!:; this one, for instance, (if the orator be ex- 
horting persons to face the hazard, though they have 
not sacrificed, ) “ One omen there is which is best, to 
defend one’s country ;”—or to face it, though they be 
few in number,—“ Mars is common ;” and to cut off 
the children of their foes, what though they have 
done no injury,—“ He is a fool who, after slaying the 
father, still spares the child !?.” 

Some old sayings too are maxims; for example, 
the expression, “ Next neighbour to an Athenian.” 
It is also proper to quote maxims which even contra- 
vene the current sayings, (I mean by current sayings 
such as this, “ Know thyself ;” or this, “Too much 
of one thing is good for nothing ;”) whenever your 
moral character may be likely to show itself to greater 
advantage, or the thing spoken is said in an impas- 


‘0 A young man ought not to use maxims. 
1! On the principle,—Vox populi est vox Dei. 
12 So thought Lee’s hero, Cesar Borgia, for he tells Ma 
chiavel in the tragedy, 
*Tis not my way to lop, for then the tree 
May sprout again; but roct him, and he lies 
Never to bluster. Act v. sc. 2. 


CHAP. ΧΧΙ.] RHETORIC. 173 


sioned manner. The speaking in an impassioned 
manner is, as if one in a passion were to assert, ‘‘ that 
it was a falsehood that one ought to know himself ; 
at least, this man, had he known himself, would never 
have claimed to be your general'*.” The moral cha- 
racter appears better [when we contradict a maxim ] 
thus, “it does not become men, as some assert, to 
love as though they were about to hate, but to hate 
as though they were about to love.” And we ought 
to give a manifestation of our moral principle by 
means of the diction we employ, otherwise to subjoin 
the reason ; for instance, either stating the sentence 
thus, “we ought to love, not as they tell us, but as 
though always about to love, for the other is the part 
of an insidious man:” or thus, “the common maxim 
does not please me; for it is the duty of the true 
friend at least to love as though he were always about 
to love.” ‘“* Nor again [does this please me], that we 
ought to carry nothing to excess; since ’tis our duty 
to hate the wicked at least to the very extreme.” 

They contribute, too, a considerable aid to our 
orations: first owing to the vanity of the audience ; 
for they feel a pleasure if one, speaking generally, 
happens to hit upon ideas which they hold on any 
particular point. My meaning, however, will be 
plain in this way, as also the manner in which we 
ought to catch at them; for the maxim, as has been 
stated, is an assertion universally, and men feel de- 
lighted when that is asserted universally, which they 
happen previously to have taken up as their opinion 
upon particulars. If, for instance, a man chanced to 
have bad neighbours or children, he would hail the 
man who should say, “nothing is more annoying 
than dwelling near people,” or, “nothing is more silly 
than to beget children.” 


13 The words probably of some panegyrist of Iphicrates, 
who, in the warmth of declamation, must have produced a 
very great effect by contradicting a maxim so generally re- 
ceived, and which bore an authority more than human, (6 celo 
descendit γνῶθι ceavrdv,) while at the same time he placed 
the merit of the general in a most striking light. For the 
original obscurity of Iphicrates, see book i chap. vii ὁ 32 


15. Max- 
ims aid a 
speech. 

i, From 
gratifying 
the vanity 
of the 
audience,’ 


174 ARISTOTLE’S [βοοκ τι 


So thar we should form a guess, some how or other 
as to the opinions which our audience happen to have 
taken up with; then to speak on these subjects ge- 


16. nerally conformably to them. This one advantage 


ii, They 
give the 
speech an 
air of cha- 
racter. 


the application of maxims must needs possess, and 
another superior to it; for it gives our orations an 
air of character. But those orations bear an im- 
press of character in which the principle is manifest, 
Arid all maxims produce this effect by reason of the 
speaker’s asserting universally on things which are 
the objects of deliberate choice: so that should the 
maxims be good, they make the speaker also to ap+ 
pear a man of worthy character. 

Such, then, be our discussion on the subject of the 
maxim, of its nature, its species, the manner in which 
it is to be employed, and the advantages which it 
possesses. 


CHAP. XXII. 
Of Enthymems. 


Let us speak generally of enthymems, in what way 
we ought to seek for them, and afterwards of the 
topics, (τόποι,) for the nature of the two is respect- 
ively different!. 

It has been stated before, that the enthymem is a 
kind of syllogism, also in what way it is a syllogism, 
and in what respect it differs from the syllogism of 
logic; for we should make our conclusions without 
taking up our assumptions either many stages back, 
or all of them together: the one process from its 
length is obscure ; the other, from its stating what is 
plain, is waste of words. 

And this is the reason why men of no education 
have more persuasive influence over the mob than 


' See the argument founded on the distinction between them, 
chup. xxvi, } 1, 


CHAP. XXII. ] RHETORIC, 78 


men of high acquirements, as the poet? says, “that 
the unlearned speak more in unison with the feelings 
of the mob ;” for the latter address them in common 
and general points, the former, from the store of their 
information, in a manner which comes home to them. 
So that we are not to found our address on any thing 
which may seem to the purpose, but on certain defi- 
nite points; such, for example, as seem right to the 
judges, or those whose opinions they acknowledge ; 
and the reason for this is, that it will appear to be 
the case either to all or most of them: moreover we 
should draw our conclusions not only from necessary, 
but also from contingent premises %, 

First, then, you ought to be aware that it is neces- 
sary, respecting every subject on which you have to 
speak and to draw conclusions, whether it be through 
the medium of the rhetorical syllogism‘, or of any 
other whatsoever, to be masters either of all or some 
of the facts inherent in it: for having none of them, 
you will not be able to draw your ififerences from any 
thing®. My meaning is this: how shall we be able 
to give advice to the Athenians, whether they ought 
to go to war, without being informed what their forces 
are, whether naval or military, or both; and these in 
how great numbers; also what are their resources ; 
or their allies and enemies; and yet further, what 
former wars they have waged, and in what manner, 
and other points of this description: or how to eulo- 
gize them, unless we be informed of the sea-fight at 
Salamis, or the battle at Marathon, or the exploits 
achieved by them in behalf of the Heraclide, or some 
other such points; for it is on the real or apparent 
honourable traits attaching to each object that all 
oratcrs found their panegyrics, And in the same 

3 Euripides, Hippolytus, 989. 

* We should allege not τεκμήρια alone, but εἴκοτα as well. 
__ ἃ Πολιτικὸς συλλογισμὸς means the syllogism peculiar to 
. thetoric. Victor. vid. Animadyv. 

§ Aristotle has himself given an outline of the kind of in- 
fcrmation which ought to be possessed with a view to speaking 


on five of the most important questicns of deliberative oratory, 
book i. chap. 4, 


ii, They 
must be 
on defi- 
nite 
points, 


iii. Our 
conclu- 
sions must 
be drawn 
both ne- 
cessarily 
and con- 
tingently. 
4. We 
must 
know the 
facts of 
the casein 
every spe 
cies of 
oratory. 
5. Delibe- 


rative, 


6. Epi- 
deictic, 


Judicial. 


8. 


9 


10, 


170 ARISTOTLE’S LBOOK If, 


way it is on their opposites that they ground their 
reprehension, always looking out for any thing of that 
nature which either attaches, or appears to attach, to 
the subject ; suppose [the case of a censure passed on 
the Athenians] because they subjected the Greeks to 
themselves, and reduced to a state of servitude the 
people of Augina and Potidza, who were their allies 
against the barbarian, and bore off the prize of high- 
est worth®; and every other transaction of this nature, 
and whatever other such error may attach to them. 
And in the same way those orators who accuse and 
defend, construct their accusations and defences on a 
view of existing circumstances’: there is no differ- 
ence in your pursuing this process, whether it be re- 
specting Athenians or Lacedzemonians, men or gods. 
For in advising Achilles, or in praising or blaming 
him, in accusing and defending him, we must assume 
the traits which attach, or appear to attach, to his 
character; in order that from among their number 
we may, in so praising or blaming him, allege what- 
ever things honourable or base attach to him; and in 
accusing or defending him, whatever things just or 
unjust; and in advising him, whatever is beneficial. 
or injurious. And in a similar manner respecting 
any business whatsoever ; as, respecting justice, the 
question whether it be expedient [must be discussed ] 
on the ground of what appertains to justice or ex- 
pediency. So that as all men appear thus to con- 
struct their proofs, whether they draw their inferences 
with greater accuracy or remissness, (for they do not 
make their assumptions out of every subject, but 
from those circumstances which are inherent in each 
question,) and by reason that it is manifestly im- 
possible otherwise to prove; it is evident, then, that 
it is necessary, as I said in the Topics, to be in pos- 


6 Herodotus, viii. 93. 

7 Having illustrated his meaning by two examples, taken 
respectively from subjects of deliberative and demonstrative 
rhetoric, he concludes with a third from the subjects recognised 
by judicial; it being his great object to keep awake in the 
memory of the reader the original rand division of questions. 


CHAP. XXII.] RHETORIC. 77 


session of certain select propositions on points which 
may occur, and are most convenient: and [it is 
evident | that the orator should conduct his inquiry 
respecting questions which arise on the sudden in the 
same manner, not turning his view aside to indefinite 
points, but to the actual points of the case which the 
oration is concerning ; and embracing in his sketch 
the greatest number he is able, and those coming the 
nearest tothe point; for in proportion as he is master 
of the greater number of the things inherent in the 
case, by so much the easier will it be to effect. proof ; 
and in proportion as these are the nearer to the point, 
in the very same proportion will they be more peculiar, 
and less vague. By vague I mean, the praising 
Achilles because he is a man, and one of the deified 
heroes, and made war against Troy ; for these are 
points attaching to a thousand others beside: so that 
such an orator no more praises Achilles than he does 
Diomed. But by peculiar I mean, those which be- 
‘fall no one else than to Achilles, for instance, the 
slaying Hector, the bravest of the Trojans; and 
Cycnus, who, being himself invulnerable, prevented 
-all the forces from landing ; and that he joined the 
expedition the youngest, and without being bound by 
an oath; and whatever other topics are of this de- 
scription. One element of enthymems, then, is that 
of selection ; and this is the first which partakes of 
the nature of topics. 

And now let us state the elements of enthymems; 
(but by place® and element of an enthymem I mean 
the samething). First, however, let us treat of those 
points concerning which it is necessary first to speak. 
For of enthymems there are two species; the one 
species are confirmative, that such is or is not the 
fact; and the other refutative: and they differ just 
as, in logic, the syllogism and the elenchus differ. 
And the confirmative enthymem is the deducing a 
conclusion from acknowledged premises; the refuta- 


8 Cum pervestigare argumentum aliquud volumus, dovos nosse 
debemus:; sic enim appellate sunt he quasi sedes, e quibus 
argumenta promuntur. Cicero, Topic. cap. ii. 

N 


ll. The 
orator 
must seiae 
the pecu- 
liar 
points. 


pt 


2. 


The topic | 
of selee- 
tion. 


13. 


14. Twe 
sorts of 
enthy- 
mems: 
δεικτικὰ. 
ἐλεκτικὰ 


15. 


ts, 


17. 


1. i. Ele- 
ment,that 
of contra- 
ries. 


178 ARISTOTLE’S JBook 7. 


tive, however, is the deducing an inference which is 
not admitted. Now the general arguments nearly on 
each class of subjects necessary and useful to be 
known are in our possession ; for propositions have 
been selected on each [branch of rhetoric]; so that 
the topics out of which one must allege his enthy- 
mems, whether on questions of good or evil, just or 
unjust, honourable or dishonourable, select points 
moreover respecting the dispositions, the passions, 
and the habits, having been collected above, are like- 
wise actually before us. 

But let us, in a different manner, further make as- 
sumptions respecting all the classes of rhetoric, and 
putting a mark on them severally as we proceed, 
state both the refutative and confirmative elements, 
as well as those of apparent enthymems, which, how- 
ever, are not really enthymems, for neither in truth 
are they [the elements of actual] syllogisms. When 
these points have been elucidated, we shall discuss the 
subject of starting objections to enthymems, and the 
means of their solution, from what sources we ought 
to adduce them. 


CHAP. XXIII, 
Elements of Enthymems. 


‘THERE is one element of confirmative enthymems, 
derivable from contraries; for we should consider, 
whether the contrary quality be inherent in the con- 
trary subject; deing away the argument [ grounded 
thereon | if it be not inherent; and if it be inherent, 
founding one thereon ourselves: for example, the ar- 
gument that “Temperance is good, because intem- 
perance is injurious :” or, as it is in the Messeniac! 
oration, “If war be the cause of our present trou- 

_? An oration spoken by Alcidamas in behalf of the Messe- 


nians, referred to above, i, 13, § 3. See the Sophism. Hudé- 
bras, P. ii. c. ii. § 123, 


CHAP. XXIII} rcHETORIC. 179 


bles, of course we shall put ourselves right again 
with the return of peace.” And, “If in truth it be 
not just to be angry with those who unwillingly do 
us harm; neither, if one on compulsion shali do 
good to any one, is it his duty to be grateful to him.” 
And, “If to speak falsely is among men available 
to persuade; there is no anomaly in supposing, on 
the contrary, that many things which are true fail of 
being believed.” 

Another is derivable from conjugate inflections?; 


for the qualities must either be inherent consistently, ἢ 


or not at all; for example, the argument, that ‘the 
just is not in every case a good, for then also would 
that which is justly be well; now it is not, however, 
desirable to die justly *. 

Another from relatives; for if to one party attach 
the idea of his having acted honourably or justly, to 
the other also will attach that of having suffered 
{honourably, etc.]. Also, if to command be just, so 
also is the having executed [the command]; for ex- 
ample, just as that farmer of the revenue, Diomedon ‘4 
said of the revenues, “If it be not base for you t« 
put them up for sale, neither is it for us to purchase 
them.” And if the idea that he has suffered justly 
or honourably be on the side of the patient, so will 
it also be on that of the agent; and if on that of the 
agent, then also on that of the patient. There is, 
however, in this way of arguing, room for passing 
off some false reasoning®: for if the person has justly 
suffered any thing, he indeed has justly been a suf- 
ferer, but perhaps not so at your hands. On which 


? See book i. 7, § 272. Hobbes calls this cognomination, or 
affinity of words. 

3 See book i. 9, § 15. 

4 Cicero illustrates this “ place”? by a similar example; 
** Nam δὲ Rhodiis turpe non est portorium locare, nec Herma- 
ereontt quidem turpe est conducere.”? De Inven. lib. i. 

5 Upon this fallacy the reasoning of Cleon was grounded in 
the debate about the Mityleneans; and Dioclotus, in his re- 
ply, uniformly strives at exposing it, while he urges, that how. 
ever they might merit death, the Athenians were not the peo- 
ple who should inflict it. Thucyd. lib. iii. 

N ὁ 


2. ii. Of 
conjugate 
inflee- 
tions, 


iv. From 
eompari- 
son in 
three 
ways. 
i. a for- 
tiori. 


il. ἃ mi- 
nore. 


ὅ. iii. By 
parity of 
. reason- 


ing. 


180 ARISTOTLE 5 [Boon 38 


account we should view the question separately,— 
whether the patient deserve to suffer, and whether 
the agent have a right to inflict the suffering; that 
done, to employ the facets in whatever way may suit 
our purpose: for at times, considerations of this 
kind do not harmonize ; just as in the Alemzon of 
Theodectus, “ Did no man hate thy mother?” In his 
reply he tells her, that it is fitting to consider the 


points taken separately ; and when Alphesibeea asks 


how, taking her up, he says, “That she indeed de- 
served death, they did decree; but at the same time 
that I ought not to be the slayer.” And just so the 
trial respecting Demosthenes, and of the persons who 
slew Nicanor. For when they had been adjudged to 
have slain him justly, it appeared that he had also 
been justly put to death. Again, respecting the per- 
son who met his death at Thebes, respecting whom 
some one bade the question be decided, whether he 
were deserving death; as though it were not unjust 
to slay one who deserved to die. 

Another element is derivable from the relations of 
greater and less®; for instance: “If not even the gods 
know every thing, hardly I should suppose do men ;” 
for it is to say, that if the quality be not inherent in 
that which would more naturally possess it ; then it 
is evident, that in that which would less naturally 
possess it, it is not inherent. 

And the argument, that “he assaults his neigh- 
bours, who even does so to his father ;” is derived 
from the element, if the less probability exist, so also 
does the greater; [which is available] in reference to 
whether of the two points it may be needful to prove, 
whether that it is or is not the fact. 

And again, by parity of reasoning, when it is said, 
“« And is thy father to be pitied in that he has lost his 
children, and is not in truth CG{neus who has lost his 
noble offspring ?” and the argument, “ If indeed The- 
seus committed no wrong, neither did Paris ;” and, 
“Tf Tyndarus’ sons did not act unjustly, neither did 


6 The argument ἃ fortiori. 


CHAP. XXIII. ] RHETORIC. 18} 


Paris ; and this, “Suppose Hector did slay Patro- 
clus, Paris slew Achilles ;” and this, “If other artists 
are not to be held cheap, neither are philosophers ;” 
and, “If generals are not held cheap because they 
are frequently vanquished, neither are sophists ;” and 
that, “If it behoves an individual to have a care for 
your glory, it also behoves you to regard that of 
Greece.” 

Another element arises from the consideration of 
time’, as Iphicrates urged in his oration against Har- 
modius, “that if before my doing it, I had claimed to 
have the honour of a statue, ye would have granted 
it; will ye not then grant it me now that I have 
achieved it?—Do not, therefore, engage yourselves 
under promises, when about to receive; and, when 
you have experienced the benefit, withdraw them.” 
And, on another occasion, in reference to the The- 
bans permitting Philip to pass through into Attica, 
the argument that, “if, before his aiding them against 
the Phocians, he had claimed a passage, they would 
have promised ; it were then an absurd thing, if, be- 
cause he threw himself on them, and had confidence 
in them, they should not let him march through®.” 

Another element is deduced from assertions made 
respecting yourself retorted upon your adversary ; 
and the term is of exceeding service, as is exemplified 


7 Under this head he considers both Time generally, and also 
Opportunity (καιρὸς, which, however, have been thus distin- 
guished—Xpovos ἐστὶν ἐν ᾧ καιρὸς, καὶ Καιρὸς, ἐν ᾧ χρόνος οὐ 
πολύς. Hippocrates, in Precept. 61. Καιρὸς again has been 
described as ὁ προσφυὴς καὶ ἁρμόδιος ἑκάστῳ χρόνος. 

8 A striking instance of appeal to this topic occurs in Mace 
beth, act i. 

Lady Maebeth. then you were a man; 

Nor time, nor place, 

Did then adhere, and yet you would make both: 

They have made themselves, and that their fitness now 
Does unmake you. 


See also Thucyd. book i. 140; ii. 6. Demosthenes frequently 
employs this topic, as in Olynth. iii. τένα χρόνον, ἢ τίνα κα poy, 
ὦ ἄνδρες AOnvaio:, τοῦ πάροντος βέλτω Cnteite. The force of 
the appeal thus made cannot be better illustrated than by the 
trequencey Οἱ iis employment, 


6. v. From 
respect of 
time. 


7. 
vi. From. 
retorting 

assertions 


on your 
adver 
Bary. 


182 ARISTOTLE S fBooK I 


in the Teucer; one too it is of which Iphicrates 
availed himself against Aristophon, when he put the 
question home to him, whether he would betray the 
fleet for a bribe; and on his denying that he would, 
then said he, “ Would you, who are Aristophon, not 
betray them, and shall I, who am Iphicrates?” You 
ought, however, to be dealing with an opposite party, 
who appears in a greater degree to have been guilty 
of injustice; otherwise it would appear ridiculous, 
were any one laying an accusation against an Aris: 
tides, to allege this ; but it ought always to tend di- 
rectly to the discredit of him who lays the impeach- 
ment; for, generally speaking, the plaintiff presumes 
himself better than the defendant ; this notion, then, 
it behoves us to refute. And generally it is absurd 
when one chides in another what he does himself, or 
would feel inclined to do ; or exhorts him to do what 
he does not himself, neither would be induced to do. 

Another place is from definitions®; as, “that the 
genius is nothing else than either the deity, or his 
production. And yet whoever conceives the exist- 
ence of the production of a deity, must necessarily 
think at the same time that gods are in existence !°.” 
And, as Iphicrates said, “that that man was most 
noble who was the best; for that there did not at- 
tach any nobility to Harmodius and Aristogiton be- 
fore they had achieved some noble exploit.” And 
his proof that himself was more nearly akin to them, 
by saying, “ At any rate my deeds are more akin to 
those of Harmodius and Aristogiton, than yours 
are!!.” And, as was said in that speech about Paris, 


9 In addition to the instances of recourse to this topic quoted 
in the text, we may mention that of expediency in the speech 
of the Plateans (Thucydides, iii. 56); and one used by Alci- 
biades in his speech at Sparta, vi. 89, πᾶν τὸ ἐναντιούμενον TH 
δυναστεύοντι, δῆμος ὀνομασταὶ, K.T. Xr. 

10 One of the arguments used by Socrates to prove his be- 
hef in the existence of gods; for if, as was granted, he held 
the existence of his attending spirit (τὸ δαιμόνιον), then neces- 
sarily must it either be itself a god, or at least a divine pro- 
duction. See Plato, Apolg. Soer. 

δ See the concluding chapter of Tacitus’s Life of Agricola, 


CHAP. ΧΧΊΣΙ. RHETORIC. 183 


“Α} will be free to acknowledge that the intemperate 
do not acquiesce in the enjoyment of a single person.” 
And the reason on account of which Socrates refused 
to go to Archelaus, “ because,” said he, “it is a dis- 
grace for one who has been treated well to be unable 
to make a retort on terms of equality, just as it would 
be for one who has been treated zl.” For all these 
deduce their inferences about the points respecting 
which they speak, after having defined and ascer- 
tained the question. 


Another element is deducible from the number of 9 


senses in which a word may be taken, as in the Topics 
respecting the acceptations of the word rightly. An- 
other from taking the different bearings of the case ; 
as, “If all act unjustly for three objects, for the sake 
either of this, or this, or this, and from two of these 
motives it is impossible that he should have acted ; 
but that he acted on the third, not even the accusers 
themselves allege.” 
Another from induction, as may be illustrated from 
the oration respecting Peparethus, to establish that 
“women every where discern truly respecting their 
children ; because first at Athens the mother made 
the matter clear to Mantias, the orator, when under- 
taking a suit against his son; and again at Thebes, 
when Ismenias and Stilbon were at issue on the point, 
the Dodonian woman proved the child to be the son 
of Ismenias; and on this account they considered 
Thessaliscus to be the son of Ismenias. And again, 
from the law of Theodectes, “If people do not give 
their own horses in charge to those who manage those 
of others amiss, nor [their ships] to those who over- 
turn the ships of others; neither ought we, if in 
every case it happens in the same way, to employ 
those who but ill protect the safety of others, for our 
own protection.” And, as Alcidamas asserted, that 
“all pay honour to the wise, at least the Parians 
honoured Archilochus, what though he was a calum- 
niator of them; and the Chians, Homer, who was 
not their citizen; the Mitylenzans, Sappho, though 
she was a woman; and the Lacedwmonians, who of 


viii. From 
the num- 
ber of 
meanings 
of the 
term, 

10. 

ix. From 
the di- 


vision. 


1]. 

x. From 
indue- 
tion. 


18: 
xi. From 
former 
decisions. 


181 ARISTOTLE’S ες ἔβοοκ 1 


all people are the least attached to learning, made 
Chilon one of their senators; the Greeks of Italy 
also honoured Pythagoras, and the people of Lam- 
psacus buried Anaxagoras, though a foreigner, and 
honour him even to this day; the Athenians again 
were prosperous while they abode by the laws of 
Solon, and the Lacedemonians, while by those of 
Lycurgus ; also at Thebes, at the time that the 
magistrates were men of learning, the state enjoyed 
prosperity.” 

Another element of enthymems is derivable from a 
former decision of the same, a similar, or opposite 
question ; more especially indeed if all men so decide, 
and that uniformly ; and otherwise, [if not all,] but 
the majority ; or the wise, either all, or most of them ; 
or the good; or if the very judges themselves, or 
those whom they approve, or those in opposition to 
whom they cannot decide (as for instance those on 
whom they depend) ; or those contrary to whom it is 
not becoming to decide; for instance, a god, or a fa- 
ther, or teacher, [happen so to have decided}. Just 
on the principle of the appeal of Autocles to Mixide- 
mides, “ whether it beseemed the awful goddesses to 
render an account to the Areopagus, and not Mixi- 
demides?” QOr,as Sappho insisted, ‘that to die was 
an evil, the gods having so decided; since [had it 
not been 807} they would themselves have died ;” or 
as Aristippus told Plato when he asserted something, 
as he thought, rather dogmatically, “ Yet,” said he, 
‘our companion at least held no such thing,” mean- 
ing Socrates. And Hegesippus, having first con- 
sulted the oracle at Olympia, put the question second- 
ly at Delphi,—whether he [ Apollo] was of the same 
opinion as his father; as though it were disgraceful 
to contradict a father. And of Helen, as Isocrates 
wrote’, that ““she was worthy, since indeed Theseus 
judged her so.” And of Paris, ‘“‘ whom the goddesses 


12 "Eypawev, because demonstrative orations were seldom 
composed for delivery, but rather, as we should say, for the 
closet, book ili. c. 12, ὁ 6, ἡ μὲν ἐπιδεικτεκὴ λέξες γραφικω- 
TaTy, τὸ γὰρ ἔργον αὐτῆς ἀνάγνωσις. See note chap. xi. § 7. 


CHAP. XXIII] RHETORIC. 185 


preferred 15, and of Evagoras, as Isocrates says, that 
must needs be virtuous, “since Conon, when un- 
fortunately passing by every one else, came to 
Evagoras.” 


Another element arises from an enumeration of 13. 


parts ; as in the Topica, “what kind of motion the 
soul is; it is either of this, or that description.” And 
an instance occurs in the Socrates of Theodectes: 
“Toward what temple hath he been guilty of im- 
piety ? whom of the gods which the ritual of our 
state acknowledges, hath he not honoured ?” 

Another consists in, Since, in the generality of in- 
stances, it happens that on the same circumstances 
somewhat is consequent whether good or evil, the 
exhortation or dissuasion by means of these conse- 
quences, the accusation or defence, the praising or 
blaming; for instance, on education is consequent 
envy, which is an evil; and the being wise, which is a 
good: [on the one hand then you may assert that] men 
should not seek to be educated, because it is not good 
to be envied; [on the other that] it is fitting to be 
educated, for it is good to be wise. In this topic’, 
with the addition of that on possibility, and the other 
{universal means of proof }, as they have been stated, 
consists the system of Calippus. 

Another occurs, when we want to exhort or dis- 
suade respecting two propositions, and those opposed 
to each other; and to avail ourselves of the foremen- 
tioned argument in the case of both. The difference 
[between this and the element last mentioned ] is, that 
in it the opposition is merely between any proposi- 
tions which may happen, it here holds between con- 
traries: for instance, a priestess was endeavouring to 
prevent her son from becoming a public speaker ; 

18. See book i. chap. vi. § 26; where, in stating that to be 
good which is an object of preference, he cites these two in- 
stances. 


44 It is, however, a mode of argument sometimes so fallae 
cious, that we may say with Ovid, 
————careat successibus opto 
Quisquis ad eventu facta notanda putat. 
Phyllis Demoph. 


xii, From 
the enu- 
meration 
of parts. 


14. 

xiii, From 
the conse- 
quents, 


15. 

xiv. From 
the di- 
lemma. 


16. 
xv. From 
the differ- 
ent mo- 
tives of 
mankind. 


] τ 
xvi. From 
analogy. 


18. 
xvii, From 
the simi- 
larity of 
conse- 
guents. 


186 ARISTOTLE’S , BOOK II 


because, said she, “If on the one hand you speak 
what is *ust, men will hate you; if what is unjust, 
the gods.” [Here then it might be retorted], there- 
fore you ought to become a public speaker ; for, “if 
you speak what is just, the gods will love you; if 
what is unjust, men’®.” And this is equivalent to 
the proverb “of buying dirt as well as salt.” And 
the retortion is this, when on each of two contraries 
good and evil is consequent, they being respectively 
opposed. 

Another arises from the circumstance, that men do 
not approve the same things privately as before the 
world; but when in public, they praise beyond all 
things what is just and honourable; but within 
themselves they prefer what is expedient: the orator 
should endeavour to infer whichever suits his pur- 
pose, for this element is of sovereign use in exposing 
anomalies of opinion. 

Another element is deducible from the analogy of 
results; as Iphicrates urged when they compelled 
his son to serve who was under the standard age, be- 
cause he was tall, that “if they esteem great children 
as men, they assuredly will vote small men to be 
children.” And Theodectes, in the oration respect- 
ing the law, asked, “Do ye make the mercenaries, 
such as Strabax and Charidemus, citizens on account 
of their virtue, and will ye not make exiles of those 
among the mercenaries who have committed these 
intolerable acts ?” 

Another arises out of the argument, that if the re- 
sult be the same, the principle from which it arises 
will be the same; just as Xenophanes used to argue, 
that “they are equally guilty of impiety who assert 
that the gods were produced, as those who assert that 
they die; for in both cases it happens that in some 
period or other the gods do not exist.” And generally 


15 See an instance of this mode of arguing used by Tiresias, 
Euripides, Pheenisse, 968. Of this kind is also the argument 
of Gamaliel: ‘If this counsel or this work be of men, it will 
come to nought; but, if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it.” 
Acts v. 38, 39. 


CHAP, XXIII.] RHETORIC. 187 


assuming that the result of each act is in every case 
identified with it. [Take this argument as an illus- 
tration |: “ Ye are about to pronounce, not respect- 
ing Socrates, but respecting the pursuit in general, 
whether it be right to addict one’s self to philosophy.” 
And this, “that the giving earth and water is the 
being slaves.” And “that the participating in the 
common peace is the performing of what is enjoined.” 
Now we are to take whichever side may suit our pur- 
pose. 

Another may be deduced from the circumstance, 
that the same persons do not choose the same things 
subsequently as before, but contrariwise ; as, for in- 
stance, this appeal :—‘‘If, when in banishment, we 
fought that we might return; shall we, now that we 
have returned, take to flight, in order that we may 
not fight'®?” For one while they chose abiding in 
their country at the expense of fighting ; at another, 
the possibility of avoiding fighting at the expense of 
non-continuance in their native land. 

Another element which may be resorted to is, the 
assertion that a thing either exists or was produced, 
for the sake of that for which it might have existed or 
been produced ; as if some one were to give a person 
any thing, in order that by taking it from him he 
may annoy him. Whence also it has been said, “" ΤῸ 
many, fortune, not bearing them good will, gives 
great good luck; but it is in order that they may _re- 
ceive the more conspicuous calamities!7.”. And this 
from the Meleager of Antiphon: ‘ Not in order that 
they might slay the beast, but that they may become 
witnesses, before Greece, of Meleager’s valour.” And 
that insinuation in the Ajax of Theodectes, “that 
Diomede chose Ulysses, not as any compliment, but 
in order that his attendant might at the same time be 
his inferior.” For it is very possible that he did so 
on this account. 

Another, common both to the judicial and de- 
liberative orators, is the consideration of the motives 


36 From an Uration by Lysias. 
% Evertére domos totas optaniibus ipsis Dii faciles. 


19. 

XvViil. 
From the 
inconsist- 
ency of 
men, 


20. 

xix. From 
assuming 
a possible 
end as the 
real one. 


ἢ; 
xx. From 
consider- 


ing the 
motives. 


22. 
xxi. From 
that 
which is 
incredible 
yet true. 


188 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 1 


which stimulate or retard men, and ‘the objects with 
a view to which they both act and avoid; for these 
are such as, if they be actually in existence, we needs 
must proceed to action; for instance, if the under- 
taking be possible, and easy, and beneficial, either to 
the person in question himself, or to his friends, or 
pernicious to his enemies, and entailing loss on them ; 
or if the loss be less than the object proposed '*. 
And it is upon these considerations that orators ex- 
hort, and on their opposites that they dissuade ; more- 
over they both defend and accuse upon the ground of 
these considerations; they rest their defences on those 
which are used to dissuade, and their accusations on 
those used to exhort!®. The whole system of Calippus, 
as well as that of Pamphilus, is nothing more than 
this element. 

Another is deducible from circumstances which 
appear to have taken place, but which are improba- 
ble, on the ground that they would not seem to be 
facts, had they not well nigh occurred or actually 
done so; and that they have a yet stronger claim to 
belief ; for men apprehend as truths either facts or 
probabilities ; if then it be passing belief, and not 
probable, it will be true?°; for at all events, it is not 
on account of its likelihood and plausibility that it 
has this appearance of being the case. Just as An- 
drocles of the burgh Pithos, said in his impeachment 

18 Ilpayua: by this word he designates the object of desire 
and pursuit. Victor. 

19 That is to say, those very same faculties which the deli- 
berative orator would employ in exhorting a person to act, 
would, if existing in reference to one under accusation, be 
turned against him by the judicial speaker as circumstances 
confirmative of suspicion. And, vice versd, the circumstances 
of difficulty attending the undertaking, which would be em- 
ployed to dissuade from its attempt, might be alleged in de- 
Jence of an individual under suspicion, as points of the case 
which render his guilt improbable. 

2 The argument may be formally stated thus: Men believe 
either what is actual fact, or probable; this is believed; this 
therefore is either fact, or probable; it is not probable, there- 
fore it is fact. It is needless to observe that the slight possi- 


bility, that it may be neither one nor the other, is completeiy 
siurred over. 


_ CHAP ΧΧΙΠ.} RHETORIC. 1839 


of the law, when the multitude were tumultuous as 
he spoke, “‘ The laws require some law to set them 
right, for the very fishes require salt ;” and yet it is 
neither likely nor plausible that creatures bred in the 
brine of the sea should require salt. ‘‘ Nay, the olive 
lees require oil,” and yet it is a fact not to be credited, 
that the very things from which oil is produced should 
require oil.” 

Another element, REFUTATIVE, is the consideration 
of contradictions; if there occur any contradiction 
under all the circumstances of time, conduct?!, say- 
ings, and the like. And this independently, respect- 
ing your adversary, as “‘ He tells you that he loves 
you, yet did he conspire with the thirty [tyrants | ;” 
or independently respecting yourself, ‘‘ He tells you 
that I am litigious, but is not able to prove that I 
have brought any action into court ;” or respecting 
both yourself and the adversary distinctly, ‘ This 
man never lent any thing, but I have ransomed 
many of you.” 

Another, applicable to those who have been calum- 
niated, or who appear so, whether men or actions, is 
the explaining the cause of the mistaken notion; for 
there is some circumstance, on account of which it 
appears to be the case; for example, when a certain 
woman had come in contact with her son, she seemed 
from her embracing him to have had connexion with 
the youth; when, however, the circumstance which 
eaused it had been stated, the charge was quashed. 
And as in the Ajax of Theodectes, Ulysses tells 
Ajax why, though he is braver than Ajax, he does 
not seem so. 


Another is derived from the cause, if-that be in 25. 


existence, arguing that the effect is also; and should 
it not exist, that neither does the effect. For cause, 


21 Thus M. Livius Salinator having at one period narrowly 
escaped conviction for embezzlement, afterwards, when he was 
made Censor, disfranchised all the tribes except that by whose 
vote he had been acquitted, “quod aut prius se injuste con- 
demnassent; aut postea tantos honores non recte tribuissent.” 
Aur. Victor. de viris illus. 


23. Refue 
tative ele 
ment. 

i, From 
consider- 
ation of 
contradie- 
tions. 


24, 

ii. From 
explana- 
tion. 


eause to 
effect, and 
vice versa. 


190 ARISTOTLE’S [Book ".- 


and that of which it is the cause, exist conjointly, 
and nothing exists without a cause. Just as Leoda 

mas in his defence, when Thrasybulus accused: him, 
because he had been inscribed with infamy on a pil- 
lar in the Acropolis, but erased it in the time of the 
thirty tyrants, urged, “‘that it was not possible, be- 
cause the thirty tyrants would put greater confidence 


_in him, while his hatred toward the democracy re- 


26. 
fv. From 
observing 
whether 
the fact 
could 
have been 
done bet- 
ter. 


27. 
v. From 
the ano- 
maly of 
the pre- 
sent act to 
the past. 


28. 
vi, From 
errors be- 
fore com- 
mi 


mained inscribed in public.” 

Another is, the observing whether the thing re- 
specting which the party is deliberating, or acting, 
or has acted, did or does admit of being on another 
and better footing ; since it will become evident that, 
if this be the case, he has not acted ; since no one vo- 
luntarily, and of his own knowledge, deliberately 
chooses what is bad. ‘This, however, involves a fal- 
lacy ; for in many cases it becomes clear [ only ] when 
too late, how it might have been managed better, 
whereas it was before unknown. 

Another, which occurs when any thing anomalous 
to former acts is about to be done, is the considering 
the both in connexion; just as Xenophanes advised 
the people of Elea, when they asked him whether 
they should sacrifice and sing a dirge to Leucothea 33 
or not, “if they conceived her to be a deity, not to 
sing a dirge; but if a human being, not to sacrifice.” 

Another element is, the accusing or defending on 
the ground of errors committed ; for instance, in the 
Medea of Carcinus, some persons accuse her because 
she slew her children, [alleging] that at all events 
they were not forthcoming ; for, respecting the send- 


_ ing away her children, Medea was in fault: she, 


29. 
vii. From 


however, defends herself [alleging that, if any one}, 
she would have murdered Jason, not her children ; 
which in truth had she done, she would have erred 
in not doing the other. And this element and spe- 
cies of enthymem constitutes the whole of that system 
of Theodorus, which is first. 

Another is deducible from the name ; as Sophocles 


22 Ino, Cadmi filia, nonne Leucothea nominata ἃ Grecis, 
Matuta habetur a nostris? Cicero, Tusc. i. 12. 


CHAF. XXIII.] ΚΗΒ, «ὍΞΙΟ. 131 


says, “ Steel in truth you are, and bear the name.” 
And as they are wont to say ix their praises of the 
gods*3; and as Conon used to call Thrasybulus, 
“rash in counsel,” (Θρασύβουλος); and Herodicus 
told Thrasymachus, “ You are always rash in fight, 
‘Opacipayoc); and Polus, “ You always are a colt,” 
‘Tlédoc); and Draco the legislator, that “his laws 
were not those of a man, but of a dragon™4; for they 
were harsh.” And as the Hecuba of Euripides says 
of Venus, “ The very name of the goddess rightly 
begins with folly®.” And as Charemon says, “ Pen- 
theus, rightly named from the calamities”® awaiting 


Refutative enthymems, however, are more in re- 
pute than the confirmative ; by reason of the refutative 
enthymem being a setting contraries briefly together ; 
and because things when put in contrast are more 
palpable to the auditor. Of all forms of reasoning, 
however, as well confirmative as refutative, those 
produce the greatest effect?’, which are of such a de- 
scription that, on the commencement of their enun- 
ciation, men anticipate the conclusion, yet without 
their being superficial ; for the hearers on their own 
parts, feel a pleasure 33, in having of themselves anti- 


23 Though he does not inform us what mode of praise this 
is to which he alludes, we may infer that it consisted in pun- 
ning on their respective appellations as often as the case ad- 
mitted it. 

*4 Tn this solitary instance of all the tissue does our language 
admit of preserving the pun of the original; and this, while it 
will serve sufficiently to illustrate our author’s meaning, will 
not leave him any great cause to regret that he has lost the 
force of the others. 

% Folly, in Greek ἀφροσύνη. The tragedian seems to have 
strained the etymology of ᾿Αφροδίτη to suit his purpose. 
However, there are no iiberties which punsters and theorists 
will not take. The words occur in the Troades, 990. Byron, 
speaking of love, says, “‘ Begun in Folly, closed in Tears.” 
Giaour. 

% Tlivbea, 

εἶ rt: respecting this word, see a note, book i. 
re) Ρ. . 

% For the principles on which this pleasure arises, see Ὁ. i. 

el, § 21, on the ground that the apprehension of them is facili« 


the 


equivoca- 


tion of 
the term, 


30. Rea- 
sons why 
refutative 
enthy- 
mems are 
more in 
repute 
than con 
firmative 


1. Falla- 
cious en- 
thymems. 


Ist. From 
the dic- 
tion of 
twokinds, 
i. Assert- 
ing a con- 
clusion 
not in- 
ferred. 


ti. Am- 
biguous 
ter ms, e‘c. 


19. ARISTOTL _BOOK 18. 


cipated it ; and [next to these may we class | all those, 
by which the hearers are left behind, just so much as 
that they apprehend them simultaneously with their 
having been enunciated, 


CHAP. XXIV. 
Elements of Apparent Enthymems. 


JusT as it is possible that [one form of reasoning] 
may be a syllogism, and that another, without really 
being such, may appear to be so; even so it must 
needs be with respect to the enthymem also, that one 
description should really be enthymems, and another 
not, however they may appear to be; for the enthy- 
mem is a species of syllogism. 

But the elements of these apparerit enthymems are, 
one derivable from the diction: and of this, the first 
kind is, as in logic, the asserting your last proposition 
with all the air of a conclusion, although you have 
deduced no [legitimate] inference at all: thus, “ So 
and so is assuredly not the case, necessarily, therefore, 
so and so is.” And the expressing yourself in the 
course of your reasonings concisely and pointedly ; 
for this kind of style is the very province of the en- 
thymem, and this kind of fallacy is, it is probable, 
that which is [demonstrated ] “the result of the style 
of the diction ;” but the stringing together the heads 
of many syllogisms, is a good expedient with a view 
to expressing yourself with all the air of syllogism in 
your style; thus, “that he preserved some, avenged 
others, emancipated the Greek people.” For each of 
these propositions has been demonstrated from others ; 
and when they are put in conjunction, it appears that 
something results ever from them. Another kind 
arises from similarity of names, as the assertion, that 


tated, and our admiration excited; and § 27 on the principle 
that τὸ σοφὸν δοκεῖν ἡδύ. For our self-admiration is gratified 
by so easily perceiving the drift of the speaker. 


CHAP. XXIV. RHETORIC. 193 


‘the mouse is an excellent animal, being that from 
which the most esteemed of all rites have derived 
their name ;” for of all rites, the mysteries are held in 
most esteem. Or, if any one in praising a dog, were 
to embrace in his panegyric the dog in the heavens, 
or Pan; because Pindar thus addresses him, “Ὁ 
blessed being, whom the inhabitants of Olympus call 
the all-various dog of the mighty goddess.” Or the 
arguing, that “it is a most disgraceful thing, that 
there should be not even a dog inthe house; and 
therefore it is evident that a dog is honourable.” 
And the assertion, that Mercury is “communicative” 
above all the gods, because Mercury alone is called 
“common.” And the stating that λόγος, speech, is 
most excellent ; because the good are worthy of λόγος, 
esteem, not of wealth: for the words (λόγου ἄξιον) 
are not used in a single sense. 

Another [element of fallacy] is the asserting con- 
jointly what is true separately ; or separately, what 
is true conjointly ; for as it appears to be the same 
thing, what though in many instances it be not the 
same, the orator should practise whatever method is 
more available to his purpose. The saying of Eu- 
thydemus is neither more nor less than an instance 
of this; the declaration, for instance, that “he knew 
there was a galley in the Pireus',” for he knew each 
[separate fact of his assertion]. And to declare of 
one who knows the constituent letters, “‘ that he knows 
the verse*;” for the verse isthe same thing. Again, 
the saying that “as twice so much is prejudicial, he 
denied that the one was wholesome ; for it is absurd 
that two good things should constitute one that is 
noxious.” Thus enunciated, it is adapted to refuta- 
tion; but thus it is confirmative; “ for two evils do 
not constitute one good,” etc. But the whole topic 

' An instance of the flagrant absurdity which may arise 
from taking conjointly what is true only separately: Euthyde- 
mus knew there were galleys in existence, and he was in the 
Pireus when he had this knowledge; he knew therefore that 
there were galleys in the Pireus, i. 6. he being in the Pireus. 

3 Of this nature was the sneering recommendation uf a 
Dictionary as a book of generai information. 

Oo 


3. 
2nd.From 
division 
and come 
position, 


δ. 
4th. From 
᾿ σημεῖον. 


194 ARISTOTLE’S [soox τι. 


is replete wih fallacy. Such again is the saying of 
Polycrates respecting Thrasybulus, that he had de- 
posed thirty tyrants*;” for he takes them conjointly. 
Or, as in the Orestes of Theodectes, from distinct 
cases, “‘It is just that she who has slain her husband 
should die; as also that a son at least should avenge 
his father, Now, are not these the very things that 
have been done?” for, taking the cases conjointly, 
perhaps it is no longer just. This may also come 
under the fallacy of omission, for it is not explained 
‘by whom [she should be put to death |.” 

Another element is the doing away or establishing 
a point by exaggeration’: and this occurs when 
without having shown that [the prisoner ] has really 
committed the crime, [the accuser] proceeds to ex- 
aggerate it; for this fallacy causes it to appear (when 
the accused employs the exaggeration) that he has 
not done the deed; or, (supposing it be the accuser 
who gets into a passion,) that he has done it. Thus 
then there is no enthymem ; for the hearer is sophis- 
tically brought over to a belief either that [the ac- 
cused] has or has not done it, without any proof 
having been adduced. 

Another is the argument drawn from a sign®, for 
this also is illogical; as if one were to say, “ Lovers 
are an advantage to states; for the love of Har- 
modius and Aristogiton deposed the tyrant Hip- 
parchus.” And if one were to say, “ Dionysius is 
a robber, for he is a wicked man;” for this also is 
illogical, because not every wicked man is a thief, 
although every thief is a wicked man. 


3 The fallacy consists in this, that it leads you to suppose 
that Thrasybulus had destroyed thirty distinct tyrannies, where- 
as he had in fact only suppressed one, the power of which hap- 
pened to be shared between thirty different individuals. 

4 This is the first of the fallacies which are independent of 
the diction, and may be termed, for the sake of distinction, 
real or material fallacies. 

5. Meaning of course the specific σημεῖον, for no fallacy can 
result from the τεκμήριον, vid. book i. chap. ii. § 16. This 
pce he has elsewhere denominated τὸ παρὰ τὴν dyvo:sp 
τοῦ thie κου. 


CHAP. KXtV.{ RHETORIC. 195 


Another is the arguing from an accidental cir- 6. 
cumstance; exemplified in that which Polycrates® acide 
said about mice, that “they lent their aid by gnaw- dents of a 
ing through the [enemy’s] bowstrings.” Or sup- thing. 
posing one to declare, “that the being bidden to 
supper is the most honourable; for Achilles was 
wroth, on account of his not being invited by the 
Greeks at Tenedos:” he however was enraged, as 
though he was treated with disrespect, and this 
occurred upon his not being invited. 

Another arises from establishing the consequent ; 7. 
as in the oration respecting Paris, [it is contended | iach 
that “he is of a noble spirit; because, despising that as a 
the society of many, he abode on Ida by himself ;” logical 
for, because the noble-spirited are thus disposed, Py Ps" 
he, too, it should seem, is noble-spirited. Again, not. 
“Since he is both foppish in his dress, and strolls 
about by night, he is an adulterer;” because adul- 
terers are persons of such habits’. Similar to 
this is also the argument, that “the poor, because 
they dance and sing in the temples; and that 
exiles, because it is permitted them to dwell where 
they list, [are happy.]|” For as these advantages 
belong to those who appear to be happy; they too 
would appear to be happy, to whom they belong. 
Moreover, the case varies with the circumstances of 
the transaction; on which account, the argument 
falls under the charge of omission. 

Another arises from stating as a cause that which 8. 
in fact is not; [arguing], for instance, on its having ata 
happened “simultaneously,” or “after ;” for men do that as ἃ 
assume that what occurs “subsequently,” [occurs] Causé . 
“by means of” [that which preceded], and more ja: a 
especially those engaged in state affairs; just as cause. 
Demades [insinuated] “that the administration of 


6 This Polycrates was one of the Sophists; he was men- 
tioned above (§3). The circumstance respecting the mice is 
recorded by Herodotus, ii. 141. 

7 The fallacy in this instance arises from taking the simple 
cenverse of a universal affirmative proposition; as also in the 
instance cited ᾧ ὃ. 

o 2 


9. 
8th. From 
the omis- 
sion of 

articu- 
ars. 


10. 
9th. From 
arguing. 


11. 


196 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 11. 


Demosthenes was the cause of all their misfortunes ; 
because a war happened after it.” 

Another, from the omission of the “when” and 
‘manner how;” for instance, the argument “ that 
Paris carried off Helen justly; because free choice 
had been given her by her father*;” for very pos- 
sibly it was not [granted] for a continuance, but 
at first merely ; because so far only was she at her 
father’s disposal. Or if any one were to say, “ that 
the striking free men was an insult :” because under 
all circumstances this is not the case, but when one 
begins the violence. 

Again, as in the disputations of the Sophists, there 
arises an apparent syllogism from stating things ab- 
solutely or not absolutely, but conditionally ; as [it is 
contended | in logic, that “what is a nonentity, does 
exist; because a nonentity exists as a nonentity ;” 
and that “ what is unknown is known, for it is known 
to be unknown®;” just so in rhetoric also, we have 
an apparent enthymem from what is not absolutely 
probable, but conditionally probable. This, however, 
is not universally the case; as in truth Agatho re- 
marks, “‘ Perhaps some one will be inclined to assert 
this to be probable, that many improbabilities will 
befall men :” for that which is contrary to probability 
does occur ; so that even what is contrary to proba- 
bility is probable !°; this, however, is not the case 
absolutely ; but just as in sophistical disputations, it 
is the omission of the circumstances of extent, rela- 
tion, and place, which produces the imposition; so 
also here [in rhetoric], it results from the things 
being probable not absolutely, but conditionally pro- 
bable. The system of Corax is constructed upon 
this topic: for supposing your client, without being 
open to the charge, as for instance, being infirm, 


8. See Euripides, Iphig. in Δ]. 66. 
9 See the epigram, which, alluding to Socrates’s declara« 
tion, “‘ that he knew nothing,” concludes thus, 
Hoc aliquid nihil est, hoc nihil est aliquid. 
** Compare the words of Sir Philip Sidney, that “ @ wonder 
ὁ no wonder in a wonderful subject.” 


CuAP. XXIV. | RHETORIC. 197 


should be under a charge for an assault, [you have 
grounds for your defence,] because the case is not 
probable: and if he be open to the charge, from his 

being, for example, a powerful man, [still you may 

defend him] on the ground that it is not likely. be- 

cause it was sure to seem to be likely!'. And so also 
respecting all other cases, for he needs must be either 

open to the imputation or not. Both cases then ap- 

pear to be likely; but the one is likely [absolutely |, 

the other not absolutely, but so as has been explained. 

And this is [the secret] ‘‘of making the worse, the 

better side!?.”. And hence mankind were justly in- Sophistry 
dignant at the annunciation of Protagoras'*; for it is pris: 
an imposition, and not the real, but an apparent pro- 
bability, and has a place in no art except rhetoric, 

and the art of disputation. And now the subject of 
enthymems, as well real as apparent, has been dis- 

cussed. 


CHAP. XXV. 
The Solution of Arguments. 


Ir follows that I speak of the modes of disengaging 1. Solu- 


one’s self from arguments. They are either the meet- tion ire : 


ing them with contradictory arguments, or starting an two ways 
objection'. Now as tothe meeting them with counter aoe! 
ry. 
11 Compare lib. i. cap. xii. § 5, τὰ λίαν ἐν φανερῷ, x. 7. X. 
12 There were some persons who charged Socrates with doe 
ing this, and thence concluded that he was a person dangerous 
to the state—Zor: τις Σωκράτης, ἀνὴρ σοφὸς, τά TE μετέωρα 
φροντιστὴς, καὶ τὰ ὑπὸ γῆν πάντα ἀναζητηκὼς, ΚΑῚ ΤῸΝ 
ἭΤΤΩ ΛΌΓΟΝ KPE'ITTQ ΠΟΊΩΝ. Plato Apol. Socr. § 2. 
Compare also the dialogue of the two λόγοι, in the Clouds of 
Aristophanes. 
13 Protagoras Abderites, Prodicus Ceius, Hippias Eleus, 
aliique multi docere se profitebantur arrogantibus sane verbis, 
“ quemadmodum causa inferior, ita enim loquebantur, dicendo 
fieri superior posset.’” Cicero, Brut. c. vill. Τῶν ἄλλων τεχ- 
νῶν οὐδεμία τἀναντία συλλογίζεται, i. i. ὁ 12. 
1 ᾿Αντισυλλογισμὸς is a syllogism, whose conclusion is con 


aru- 
ments. 
Objec 
tions. 

2 


3. Objec- 
tions are 
fourfold. 


Ist. From 
the same 
source. 


i, Gener- 
γ. 

ii. Parti- 

eularly. 


2nd.From 
a contra- 


ry. 


198 ARISTOTLE’S ΕΒΟΟΚ 11. 


arguments, it is evident that we may do it on the 
ground of the same topics [as were given for refuta- 
tion]: for the arguments arise out of probabilities, 
and many things which appear likely are opposed to 
each other.. 

Objections, however, (as was stated in the Topics, ) 
are started in four ways: 1. for either it may be from 
the same subject: 2. from a similar: 3. or an op- 
posite [to that from which the adversary argues]: 4. 


4, or from points already decided. By deriving your 


objection from the same source, I mean that, sup- 
posing the enthymem were respecting love, “ that it 
was a good feeling ;” there would be a twofold ob- 
jection ; for it [might be started] asserting generally 
that “every want is bad:” or particularly, that “ the 
proverbial expression Caunian loves”, would not have 


5. arisen had there not been some wicked loves.” Again, 


an objection is alleged on the ground of a contrary 
fact; as, if the enthymem was this, “‘ The good man 
benefits all his friends ;” [and the objection,] “ But 


6. the bad man does not hurt all his.” And on the 


3rd. From 
a similar 
case. 


4th. he 
points de- 
cided, 


ground of similar cases*; if the argument be, “‘ Those 
who have been treated ill always hate ;” [the objec- 
tion,] that “those who have been treated well do not 
always love*.” And again, the decisions of men of 
celebrity: thus, suppose one brought forward the ar- 
gument, that “we ought to have some feeling for 
those who are intoxicated, because they err ignorant- 
ly >” this objection [may be started], that “ Pittacus 


tradictory of that adduced by your opponent: ἔνστασις is the 
showing that his reasonings are fallacious either in matter or 
form. 

2 Alluding to the loves of Byblis and her brother Caunus. 
See Ovid. Metaph. 1x. 453. 

3 Or to use the English phrase, ‘‘ by parity of reasoning.” 

4 Victorius remarks, that ‘‘ however at first sight this ins 
stance would seem to be one of ἔνστασις ἡ ἀπὸ τοῦ εναντίου, 
it is not inapplicable to the present case, inasmuch as the in- 
jured stand to the injurers in a relation stmi/ar to that in which 
the benefited stand to their benefactors. 

5 The question how far ἀγνόων may be considered a free 
agent, is discussed in the Nicomachwan Ethics lib. iii. cap. i 
5; and Hook:r, book 1. 


CHAP. Xxv.] RHETORIC. 199 


is not therefore entitled to praise, otherwise he would 
not in his enactments have imposed higher fines, in 
case the party committed the error while intoxicated.” 

But as all reasonings [of the orator] are derived 8. Rea 
from four sources, and these four are probability, ex- nee 
ample, proof positive (τεκμήριον), and signs; and as from four 
the reasonings drawn from what is usual, or appears Sources : 

i, Proba- 
to be so, are drawn from probabilities, while those bility. 
drawn by inference from similarity of circumstances, ii, Exam- 
whether in one or more instances, (when the speaker F: ple. oa 
embracing what is general, then infers particulars, ys μήριον. 
exist by virtue of example; while those again which ἵν. ση- 
are inferred from what is necessary and fact, are “*!- 
founded on proof positive ; and lastly, as those drawn 
from what does or does not hold good, whether uni- 
versally or particularly, result from signs, [it being 
remembered] that probability is not what always, 
but what uswally occurs; it is plain that it is, i 
every case, possible to get rid of reasonings such as 
these by starting an objection. The solution is, how- 9. Solu- 
ever, [sometimes] apparent, and not always real ; tion of 
for the objector does not do it away on the ground {one 

yec y € ground some- 

of its not being probable, but on that of its not being times fal- 
necessary®. Wherefore it always happens, that the lacious: 
defendant has the advantage of the accuser, by means ah ane a 
of this piece of sophistry. For as the accuser con- service to 
structs his proof by means of probabilities (the task ae 
of getting rid of the positive certainty being by no jjaintitt 
means the same [in point of difficulty], as that of 

getting rid of the probability of the charge); and as 

that which is merely probable, is invariably open to 

-an objection ; (for it otherwise would not be a pro- 
bability, but invariable and necessary ;) and if this 

method of solution have been adopted, the judge 
supposes either that it does not amount to a proba- 

bility, or at least that he ought not to decide, having 

been imposed upon in the way mentioned above; 


® The orator must therefore show on which side the greater 
probability lies. “There are objections,” said Dr. Johnson, 

“against a plenum, and objections against a vacuum; yet one 
of them must be right.” Whately. 


2.) ARISTOTLE § [Βοοκ 11 


because [in fact] he is not bound to pronounce on 
positive proofs alone, but also on probabilities, which 
is the spirit of the oath, “that he will decide to the. 
best of his judgment ;” wherefore that will not be a 
satisfactory objection which rests merely on the ab- 
sence of proof positive, but it is further incumbent 
on the objector to get rid of the probability; this, 
however, will be the case, if the objection be proba- 
11. ble in a higher degree; (and it may be se in two 
ways, either on the score of time, or of the nature of 
the case; and pre-eminently so, if in both these 
particulars ;) for if in the majority of instances it be 
as you state, then it is a greater probability. 
12. Speci- Signs also, and the reasonings deduced from them, 
eee may be got rid of, even if they be facts, as was stated 
ak. in the first Book ; for it is clear to us from the Ana 
lytics that every sign is illogical. 
13. Solu- The same method of solution applies to reasonings 
vinta! grounded on example as to those on probabilities ; for 
’ if we have a single instance in contravention, it has 
been answered’, [sufficiently to show 7 that it is not 
necessary ; or that in the majority of instances, and 
those of more frequent occurrence, the case is other- 
wise. If, however, it be the case more frequently, 
and in the majority of instances, we must contend 
that the present is not the case in point, or that its 
application is not in point, or that it has some differ- 
ence at all events. 
14. rex- But proofs positive (τεκμήρια), and the reasonings 
sok BSH grounded on them, we shall not be able to get rid of, 
except by at least not on the plea of inconclusiveness ; this is 
assailing clear to us from the Analytics: it remains for us to 
oo show that what is asserted is not the case®; if, how- 
ever, it be clear both that it is true as a matter of 
fact, and that it is a proof positive of the point, from 
that moment it becomes irrefragable ; for thenceforth 
it is plain from demonstration. 


7 That is to say, by a λύσις φαινομένη. { 
* As we cannot object to the form of the reasoning, our only 
resource is to attack the matter: to deny the premises. 


HAF. XXv1.| RHETORIC. 20) 


CHAP, XXVI. 
Of Amplification and Extenuation. 


AMPLIFICATION and extenuation are not elements of 1. Ampli- 
enthymems, (by topic and element I mean the same pose ee 
thing,) since the element and the topic is that under posite not 
which many enthymems fall ; whereas amplification pieces 
and extenuation are [themselves] enthymems for ten), 
showing that a thing is great or little, like those for 

showing that it is good or bad, just or unjust, or 

falls under either of the other denominations. And 2. 

these are all the questions about which syllogisms and 
enthymems are conversant; so that unless each of 

these be a topic of an enthymem, amplification and 
extenuation are not. 

Neither, again, are the topics which are available 3. Enthy- 
to solution of enthymems, at all different in species Pefutation 
from those employed in their construction: for it is and con- 
evident that he effects solution who either proves —— 
[something contrary |, or states an objection, and they game in 
establish a counter proof of the contrary ; thus, “ If kind. 
one has argued that a fact has taken place, the other 
argues that it has not ;” or “if one argues that it has 
not, the other insists that it has.” So that this will 
not amount toa difference ; for both employ the same 
vehicles of proof, inasmuch as they each allege en- 

‘hymems to show that it is, or is not the case. 

But the objection is not an enthymem, but is, as 4. Objec- , 
was stated in the Topics, the stating some opinion pret 
from which it will appear that no legitimate inference mem. Ὄ». 
has been arrived at, or that [the opponent] has as- finition of 
sumed some false proposition. ang ns 

Thus much, then, on the subject of examples, and & 


maxims, and enthymems!, and, in a word, all the 


1 In taking leave of a series of terms which have occurred 
hitherto so frequently, we may as well remark that examples, 
maxims, enthymems, etc. denote the particular modification of 
the proof, or the shape in which it is served up, without refer- 


» 


202 ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC... [soox 1. 


means of persuasion which address themselves to the 
understanding, both the sources whence we may 
furnish ourselves plentifully with them, and the 
means by which we may effect their solution’. It 
remains for us to go over the subject of style and ar- 
rangement ?, 


ence to its degree of validity: while probability, signs, τεκμήρια, 
etc. refer to its degree of validity, without regard to the shape 
or manner in which the proof is conveyed. 

2 Having now despatched the first and most important of 
the three grand divisions of his work, viz. the subject of πίστις, 
it only remains to discuss the remaining two, λέξις and τάξις. 
In fact, having told the speaker what he is to say, he has now 
only to tell how he is to say it. 

3 The subjects of πίστις, λέξις, and τάξις, it will be recol- 
lected, constitute the widest and most general arrangement of 
his work. See book iii. chap. i. ᾧ 1. 


BOOK ITI. 


CHAP. I. 
Of the Parts of Rhetoric. 


As there are three points which ought to be handled 1. Three 

respecting a speech; one, as to the sources out of poeit'y 

which will arise means of persuasion; a second, re- πίστις. 

specting the style; a third, how we ought to arrange oy νὰ 
. τάξις, 

the parts of a speech. On the subject of the means 7° tivo 

of persuasion much has been said, as well as to how last to be 

many the sources are out of which [they arise], name- *teated. 

ly, that they are three; also, what is the nature of 

these sources, and why they are no more: for all 

those who decide, are persuaded either by being them- 

selves impressed in a certain way, or from conceiving 

the speakers to be men of a certain character, or from 

the matter of fact having been proved . 

It has been stated also with respect to enthymems, 
whence we are to furnish ourselves with them; for 
[of those sources |, some are elementary propositions, 
peculiar | to the several branches of rhetoric] ; others 
are places [οἵ universal applicability]. It follows that 2. 
we treat of the subject of style; for the mere being 
in possession of what one ought to say is not enough ; 
but it is moreover necessary that we deliver it as we 
ought; [and the doing this] contributes much to 
your speech’s appearing to be of a certain character. 

Now that by which its nature is first, was, con- 3, ὑπόκρι 
formably to nature, investigated the first ; viz. whence σι Dot 
these things derive their persuasive efficacy: next to ie 

dled. 
this, was the disposition of them in the speaking: 
and thirdly, [arose an inquiry] of the greatest con- 


Δ See book i, chap. ii, } 3. 


4. It con- 
sists in 
three 
things. 
μέγεθος. 
ἁρμονία. 
ῥυθμός. 


5. No act 
yet com 
piled on 
it. 


204 ARISTOTLE’S ‘poox 111. 


sequence, but which never yet has been handled, on 
the subject of delivery; for it was introduced into 
tragedy and the public recitations at a late period, 
since at first? the poets used themselves to sustain 
the dialogue’ in their tragedies. It is therefore plain 
that some such power exists in relation to rhetoric, 
as well as to poetry; which [as connected with the 
latter art | Glauco the Teian, and some others, have 
treated of. And it depends on the voice, as to how 
we ought to manage it in reference to each several 
passion ; when, for instance, we should employ a loud, 
when a low, and when a moderate pitch of voice; 
and on the manner in which we should employ its 
tones, viz. the acute, the grave, and the intermediate ; 
and on certain rhythms in reference to each ; for the 
points, in reference to which they conduct their in- 
quiries, are three, viz. the loudness of the voice, the 
fitness of its tones, and its rhythm. Now these pro- 
ficients bear away nearly all the prizes in the disput- 
ations; and as in the other contests‘ the actors now 
produce a greater effect than the poets, so likewise 
do they in civil causes, owing to the depravity of 
states. There is not yet however any system com- 
piled respecting these points, (since even the subject 
of style was brought forward at a late period,) and, if 
rightly conceived of, it appears an ornament adapted 
to vulgar tastes®; but as the whole subject of rhetoric 

2 That the two departments of author and actor were united 
in the same person, is asserted also by Horace, Art. Poet. 277, 
and by Plutarch, ἐθεάσαντο τὸν θέσπιν αὐτὸν ὑποκρινόμενον, 
ὥσπερ ἔθος ἦν τοῖς παλαιοῖς. 

3 That ὑποκριτὴς came to designate an actor from the cir- 
cumstance of his sustaining the dialogue with the chorus, may 
be evinced by reference to the etymology of the word. Its 
successive meanings have been clearly traced in the Quarterly 
Review: ““Ὑποκριτὴς, Qui respondet, ab ὑποκρίνεσθαι, ree 
spondere, Homer, Herodot. Histrio, quia primo tragedie statu 
histrio Choro respondebat. Suidas, ὁ ὑποκρινόμενος Tw χορῷ. 
Simulator, quia histriones fictas partes tuebantur.”’ No, xliv. 
Art 2, p. 326. | 

4 Those for the prize in the tragic games. 

5 Φορτικόν. It appears from ‘lwining’s excellent illustrae 
tions of the meaning of this word, that it is used to imply any 
thing extravagant, violent, overcharged, outré :—as applied to 


cuar, 1.} RHETORIC. 205 


has reference to opinion, we should pay attention to 
it, not as to a subject of absolute propriety, but as 
one of necessity; for as to mere matter of justice, 
we ought not to inquire further on the subject of 
speeches than so as to avoid giving pain, at the same 
time that we do not delight; for the rule of right is, 
that the contest be carried on by means of the facts 
themselves ; so that, except the proof, all the rest is 
superfluous®; but it is notwithstanding, as has been 
stated, a point of great moment, in consequence of 


Its influ- 
ence is 


the weak judgment of the auditor. The subject of 8 ot 


style, however, has some necessary though trifling 
claim on our attention in every system; for the ex- 
pressing one’s self in this or that way makes some dif- 
ference with a view to exhibiting the subject clearly, 
not however to so great a degree [as is generally sup- 
posed]: all these points are however mere idea, and 
have a reference to the auditor ; wherefore it is that 
no one teaches geometry in such a style. 

This art then, be it introduced when it may’, will 
produce the same effect as that of acting. And some 
to a small extent have already made an effort to treat 
of it; Thrasymachus, for instance, on the excitement 
of compassion. Again, the being qualified for de- | 
livery is a gift of nature, and rather without the ὦ 
province of art; the subject of style, however, is 
clearly reducible to an art. Wherefore rewards are 
bestowed in turn on those who are proficients in this, 
just as there are on those rhetoricians [who claim] 


persons, it means troublesome, tiresome, etc., or insolent, over- 
bearing, etc., synonymously with ἀνελεύθερος, βάναυσος, popu- 
lar, low, vulgar, illiberal, ete. Atheneus, in speaking of the 
rejection of Hippoclides, one of the suitors of Agarista, daugh- 
ter of Clisthenes, king of Sicyon, attributes it to the disgust 
conceived by her father at him, POPTIKQS ὀρχησάμενον (see 
Herodot. vi. 129). Aristotle himself classes the φορτικοὶ with 
the βωμολόχοι, (Eth. Nich. iv. 8,) and with the οἱ πολλοὶ 
(ibid, i. 5). It is in fact, (to adopt an expression of Pope’s,) 
; any thing levelled to please the populace. 

B. i. c. 1. § 10. οὐδὲν ἄλλο der, πλὴν ἀποδεῖξαι ὅτι οὕτως 
ἔχ δι; 

1 Ὑπόκρισις: for he clearly foresees that from its obvious 
importance it must eventually become an adjunct of rhetoric, 
as it has already become of dramatic exhibitions. 


8. Poets 

first used 
recitation 
and deli- 
very with 
success, 


9. Hence 
early rhe- 
toricians 
adopted 
the florid 
poetical 
style. 


But have 
gradually 
relin- 
quished 
it, as the 
tragedi- 
ans have 


also done. 


10. 


206 ARISTOTLE’S [Book MI 


on the ground of delivery; for written orations in- 
fluence more by means of their style than through 
the sentiment. 

Now the poets, as was natural, began to make a 
stir upon the subject at first; for words are imita- 
tions, and the voice, of all our parts, is the most 
imitative’; on which account also these arts were 
constructed, both that of recitation, and of acting, 
and of others too. But as the poets, though what 
they said was very frivolous, appeared to acquire 
their reputation by means of their style; on this 
account the first style [of rhetoric] was formed on 
that of poetry, witness the style of Gorgias; and 
even at the present time the majority of ignorant 
people fancy tzat such orators speak most delight- 
fully: this however is not the case, but the style of 
poetry and that of prose is distinct, and the result 
shows it; for not even the writers,of tragedy them- 
selves any longer employ the same turn of diction, 
but just as they have passed from trochaic to iambic 
metre®, because the latter is most like prose of all 
the other metres ; so have they also relinquished all 
those terms which are foreign to the style of convers- 
ation, with which however the early writers used to 
embellish [their works |, and which even at the pre- 
sent day are employed by those who write in heroic 
metre; wherefore it is ridiculous to imitate the 
tragedians, who in their own case no longer employ 
that turn of diction. ᾿ 

So that it is evident that we need not discuss with 
minuteness all points soever which it is possible to 
treat of under the head of style, but so many only as 
belong to such an art as we are speaking of: the 
other part of the subject has been spoken of in my 
treatise on Poetry. 


® So that of course the poet, whose business was imitation, 
would immediately put in requisition these two most obvious 
sources of it. 

® The trochaic metre occurs frequently in the plays of Ais- 
chylus, the most ancient of the tragedians extant, particularly 
in the Perse; as also in those of Euripides, especially in the 
Pheenisse and Orestes: but in those of Sophocles, rarely, if 
ever. 


CHAP. 11. RHETORIC. 207 


CHAP, If. 
On Excellence of Style as made up of single Words. 


Let this then have been discussed: and let excel- 1. Excel- 


lence of style be-defined to consist in its being clear ; lence of 
style de- 


(a sign of this is this, that the diction, uzless it make fned to be 
the sentiment clear, will not effect its purpose!;) and the τὸ 
neither low, nor above the dignity cf the subject, but °*?** 
in good taste; for the style of poetry indeed is not 
low, yet it is not becoming in prose. 

Of nouns and verbs? those which are in general use 2. Words 


produce the effect of clearness: to prevent its being that are 
low, and to give it ornament, there are other nouns pega ἢ 


which have been mentioned in the Poetics, for a de- spicuity. 
parture [from ordinary acceptations] causes it to ap- 

pear more dignified ; for men are affected in respect 

of style in the very same way as they are towards 
foreigners and citizens. On which account you 3. To ele 


. . . +? 
should give your phrase a foreign® air; for men are Yate style 
we must 


admirers of things out of the way, and what is an ob- use ξένα, 


1 “ Perspicuity consists in the using of proper terms for the = 


zdeas or thoughts which he would have pass from his own 
mind into that of another man. It is this that gives them an 
easy entrance; and it is with delight that men hearken to 
those whom they easily understand ; whereas what is obscurely 
said, dying as it is spoken, is usually not only lost, but creates 
a prejudice in the hearer, as if he that spoke knew not what 
he said, or was afraid to have it understood.”? Locke, Some 
‘Thoughts concerning Reading and Study, vol. iv. p. 601. 

? As Aristotle proceeds henceforth to a complete analysis of 
the subject of style, he first considers it in reference to the 
single words of which it is made up (ἐξ ὧν συνέστηκε, § 5), 
which occupies him to the end of the fourth chapter. He then 
considers it as made up of whole sentences ; the means of in- 
vesting these with dignity, of adapting them to the subject, of 
constructing them to please the ear, and as addressed to the 
tntellect ; and concludes with enumerating their several ele- 
gancies. First, then, he considers the beauties of style as de- 
pending on single words. 

* Should the epithet foreign, as applied to a quality of style, 
not be immediately apprehended, it may be well to recollect 
that it means the excellence opposed to the fault which we 
designate homeliness, 


Words to 
be but 


208 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 111. 


ject of admiration is pleasant*. Now in the case of 
metrical compositions, there are many things which 
produce this effect, and there are very becoming, be- 
cause both the subject and the person stand more 
apart [from ordinary life]; in prose, however, these 
helps are much fewer, for the subject is less exalted : 
since even in that art were a slave, or a mere youth, 
or [any one, in fact, in speaking] of mere trifles to 
express himself in terms of studied ornament, it 
would be rather unbecoming; but here too [as in 
poetry] the rule of good taste is, that your style be 
lowered or raised according to the subject. On 
which account we must escape observation in doing 
this, and not appear to speak in a studied manner, 
but naturally, for the one is of a tendency to persuade, 
the other is the very reverse®; because people put 
themselves on their guard, as though against one who 
has a design upon them, just as they would against 
adulterated wine. [Let your style then be such] as 
was the case with the voice of Theodorus as com- 
pared with that of the other actors®; for it appeared 
to be that of the character which was speaking, theirs 
however were foreign from the character. And the 
deceit is neatly passed off if one frame his nomen- 
clature upon a selection from ordinary conversation ; 
the thing which Euripides’ does, and first gave the 
hint of. 

As however nouns and verbs are [the materials | 
of which the speech is made up, and as nouns admit 


4 This was asserted book i. chap. 11, § 23, 24. 

5 Ubicunque ars ostentatur, veritas abesse videtur, Quintil. 
Instit. x. 3. Artis est celare artem. 

6 Harris seems to have had this passage in view when he 
wrote the following: “ ’Tis in writing as in acting; the best 
writers are like our late admired Garrick. And how did that 
able genius employ his art? Not by a vain ostentation of any 


-one of his powers, but ny ἃ datent use of them ail in such an 
-exhibition of nature, that, while we were present in a theatre, 


and only beholding an actor, we could not help thinking our- 
selves in Denmark with Hamlet, or in Bosworth Field with 
Richard.” Philolog. Ing. P. ii. c. 4. 

7 In this practice, Euripides stands remarkably opposed to 
his predecessor Aischylu* 


CHAP. 11.} RHETORIC. 209 


so many species as have been examined in the Poetics, 


out of the number of these we must employ but spar- ἐᾷ, 


ingly, and in very few places, exotic® and compound 
words, and those newly coined; where they may be 
employed I will state hereafter®: the reason [of the 
restriction] has been mentioned, viz. because they re- 
move your style [from that of common life] more 
than is consistent with good taste. Words however 
of ordinary use, and in their original acceptations", 
and metaphors, are alone available in the style of 
prose: a proof [that this is the fact, is] that these are 
the only words which all persons employ ; for every 
body carries on conversation by means of metaphors, 
and words in their primary sense, and those of ordi- 
nary use. ‘Thus it is plain that, if one should have 
constructed his style well, it will be both of a foreign 
character, and that [the art of the orator] may still 
elude observation, and [the style itself ] will have the 


8 Ῥλῶττα: “any word that belongs either to another lan- 
guage, or another dialect of the same language, and that is not 
naturalized by common and popular use.” ‘Twining. 

9 In the seventh chapter he says, that they may be used 
with effect when you would assume the language of high ex- 
citement: see § 1]. 

10 Κύρια are words in general use, opposed to γλῶτται, vut- 
landish expressions. Οἰκεέα, words in their primary and literal 
acceptations, opposed to μεταφοραὶ, words transferred from 
their primary meaning to some analogous meaning. Many 
words are κύρια which yet are not οἰκεία, In fact, of the three 
divisions the οἰκεία are necessarily the fewest ; since the proper 
and original designations of individual objects cannot extend 
to a number sufficiently great to answer all the purposes of 
language ; the resources of which must therefore be augmented 
by metaphorical transfer. Even these words in time become 
so naturalized by common use as no longer to have any thing 
““ of the effect of metaphor upon the hearer. On the contrary, 
like proper terms” (οἰκεία), ‘they suggest directly to his 
mind, without the intervention of any image, the ideas which 
the speaker proposed to convey by them.” Philos. of Rhet. 
vol. i. p. 185, 186. From those sounds which we hear on 
“small or on coarse occasions, we do not easily receive strong 
impressions, or delightful images; and words to which we are 
nearly strangers [terms of art, etc.], whenever they occur, 
draw that attention on themselves which they should transmit 

things. Johnson’s Life of Dryden, vol. vi. p. 395, edit. 
| Vid. the whoie passage. 

\ P 


sparingly 
employ- 


6. Words 
κύρια, oi- 
κεία, pe- 

Tapopai, 
proper for 
prose, 


8. Meta- 
hors. 
ules for. 


sD "" ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK μι. 


advantage of clearness; this however was laid down 
to be the perfection of rhetorical language. But of 
all nouns, those which are equivocal suit the purposes 
of the sophist, for by their help he effects his falla- 
cies, while synonyms are of use to the poet; I mean 
these which are both synonyms and of common usage, 
as πορεύησθαι and βαδίζειν, for these two are both of 
common usage and synonymous to each other. 

The nature then of each of these varieties, and 
how many species of metaphor there are, and also 
that this ornament is of the greatest effect, as well in 
poetry as ‘prose, has been explained, (as I have ob- 
served above,) in the Poetics. In prose’ however 
we should bestow the greater attention on them, in 
proportion as an oration has to be made up of fewer 
adjuments than a metrical composition. Moreover 
the metaphor possesses in an especial manner [the 
beauties of] clearness and sweetness, with an air of 
being foreign'?; and it is not possible to derive it 
from any other person 15, 

You must however apply, in the case both of 
epithets and metaphors, such as are appropriate ; and 
this will depend on their being constructed on prin- 
ciples of analogy, otherwise they will be sure to ap- 
pear in bad taste; because contraries show themselves 
to be such, particularly when set by each other. But 
you must consider, as a purple garment becomes a 


11 ἸΤρῶτα μὲν οὖν μεταφοραῖς χρηστέον" αὖται γὰρ μάλιστα 
καὶ ἡδονὴν συμβάλλονται Tois λόγοις, καὶ μέγεθος,---μὴ μεντοι 
πυκναῖς. Demetr. 

12 ἐς As to metaphorical expression, that is a great excellence 
in style, when it is used with propriety, for it gives you two 
ideas for one ;—conveys the meaning more luminously, and 
generally with a perception of delight.” Boswell’s Johnson, 
ΖΕ. 68. 

*8 Aristotie seems to subjoin this as the crowning praise of 
metaphor ; for he has already told us that, that is a good the 
principle of which centres in ourselves ; so also, in the Topica, 
he lays | down that 8 ὅ μή ἐστι παρ᾽ ἄλλου πορίσασθαι as a greater 
good ἤ ὃ ἐστί wap’ ἄλλον. In the third book of the Nicoma- 
chean Ethics he employs a similar topic of praise: & παρ᾽ ἐτέ- 
pou μὴ οἱόν Te λαβεῖν, μηδὲ μαθεῖν See also book i. c. 7, § 33, 
of the present weatise. 


CHAP. I1.] RHETORIC. 211 


youth, what is equally so to an old man; since the 
same garment does not become [both ]. 

And if you wish to embellish your subject, see 
you deduce your metaphor from such things coming 
under the same class as are better; and if to cry it 
down, from such as are worse: I mean, as the cases 
are opposed and come under the same genus, that the 
saying, for example, of a beggar, that “he prays,” 
and of one who is praying, that “he begs,” (both 
being species of asking, ) is to do the thing which has 
been mentioned ; just as Iphicrates called Callias “a 
mere collector to the goddess, and not a bearer of the 
torch.” He however replied, “that he must needs 
be uninitiated himself, or he would not call him a 
collector, but a bearer of the torch.” For these are 
both services connected with the goddess; the one 
however is respectable, while the other is held in no 
repute. And some one [speaks of the courtiers of 
Dionysius as] Dionysian parasites; they however 
call themselves artificers\4. And these expressions 
are both metaphors; the one of persons who would 


10. 

ii, From 
a better 
class if to 
embel- 
lish: from 
a lower if 
to debase. 


depreciate, the other the contrary. Even robbers, ᾿ 


now-a-day, call themselves purveyors’®. On which 
principle we may say of a man who “has acted un- 
justly,” that he “is in error;” and of one who “is 
in error,” that he “has acted unjustly.” Again, of 
one who has stolen, both that has taken, [in way of 
diminution,| and that has ravaged [in exaggera- 


4 Διονυσοκόλακας. This term, by which the tribe of flat- 
terers seem to have been exposed to ridicule on the stage 
(κόλακες τοῦ Διονυσίου), was ingeniously enough borrowed 
from the name of the patron of the theatre, Διόνυσος ; they 
however thought proper to exchange one theatrical appellation 
for another more respectable, and dignified themselves by the 
name τεχνίται. This, as well as the corresponding Latin term, 
artifices, seems to have been more commonly applied to actors, 
musicians, etc. See Keuchen, note on Corn. Nep. vita Cha- 
brie, c. i. By the way, this sort of metaphorical embellish- 
ment appears not to be unusual in the present day, if it be true 
{as we are told) that the important personage who directs the 
tulinary operations in great families be entitled the artist. 

45 Compare Thucyd. Ὁ. i. sw? init. 

PZ 


“12 ARISTOTLE 5 {BOOK 11. 


tion 16]. But the saying, as the Telephus of Euripides 
does, “that he lords it o’er the oars, and landing in 
Mysia,” etc., is out of taste; for the expression, 
“lording it over,” is above the dignity of the sub- 
ject; [the rhetorical artifice] then, is not palmed 


11, off!7. There will also be a fault in the syllables, 


fii. The 
euphony 
must be 
attended 
to. 


12. © 


iv. Must 
not be far- 
fetched. 


unless they are significant of a grateful sound; for 
instance, Dionysius, surnamed Chalcous!*, in his 
elegies, calls poetry, “the clangor of Calliope,” be- 
cause both are vocal sounds ; the metaphor, however, 
is a paltry one, and couched in uncouth expressions !°. 

Again, our metaphors should not be far-fetched ; 
but we should make the transfer, on the principle of 
assigning names out of the number of kindred ob- 
jects, and such as are the same in species, to objects 
which are unnamed, of which however it is clear, 
simultaneously with their being uttered, that they 
are akin, as in that approved enigma, 

“Α man I once beheld, [and wondering view’d, | 

Who, on another, brass with fire had glued*:” 

TWINING. 

for the operation is undesignated by any name?”’, and 
both are species of attaching ; wherefore the writer 
called the application of the cupping instrument, a 
gluing. And, generally speaking, it is possible out 
of neatly constructed enigmas to extract excellent 
metaphors: because it is on the principles of metaphor 

16 See book i. chap. 13, § 9, 10. 

17 Ts too glaring, is seen through. 

18 Were it not that Plutarch attributes this surname of Dio- 
nysius (‘‘ the Brazen”’’) to a suggestion of his for employing 
brass currency at Athens, the specimen here quoted might lead 
us to suppose that he derived the appellation from some cha- 
racteristic harshness of style. 

19 "Aonpuos φωνὴ, vox que vel forma vel significatione turpis 
est. Ern. Lex. Tec. 

30 This enigma is ingenious, and means the operation of cup- 
ping, performed in ancient days by a machine of brass. Phi- 
lolog. Ing. P. ii. c. 10. 

21 Metaphor took its rise from the poverty of language. Men, 
not finding upon every occasion words ready made for their 
ideas, were compelled to have recourse to words analogous, 


and transfer them from their original meaning, to the meaning 
then required.” Philolog. Inq. P. ii. ο. 10, 


CHAP. il. RHETORIC. 213 


that men construct enigmas; so that it is evident, 
that [if the enigma be a good one] the metaphor has 
been properly borrowed. 

The transfer also should be made from objects 13. 
which are beautiful ; beauty however of words con- Sn 
sists, as Licymnius observes, in the sound or in the borrowed 
idea conveyed; as does also their inelegance. And ΦΡΈΣ, 

3 : : eautiful 
there is moreover a third™, which does away the 80- chiccts. 
phistical doctrine; since it is not the fact, as Bryso Beauty of 
argues, “that no one speaks inelegantly, if indeed Miia 
the using one expression instead of another, carries jn the 
with it the same meaning:” for this is a fallacy; sound. 
because some words are nearer in their ordinary 188 idea. 

. PEM The ap- 
acceptations, more assimilated, and have more pecu- plication. 
liar force of setting the object before the eyes than ὁ 
others. And what is more, one word represents the 
object under different circumstances from another ; 
so that we may even on this principle lay it down, 
that one word has more or less of beauty and inele- 
gance than another: for although both words, [at 
the same time, | express [ properties which are] beaue 
tiful, as well as such as are inelegant; yet they either 
express them not gua they are beautiful, or not gua 
they are inelegant; or granting they do, yet they 
express them, the one in a greater, the other in a 
less degree. But we are to deduce our metaphors 
from these sources ;—from such as are beautiful either 
in sound, in meaning, or [in the image they present ] 
to the sight, or any other sense. And there is a dif- 
ference, in the saying, for instance, “ the rosy-fingered 
Aurora;” rather than “the purple-fingered ;” or, 
what is still worse, “ the erimson-fingered.” 

Also in the case of epithets, it is very possible to 14. Epi- 
derive one’s epithets from a degrading or disgraceful ἘΜΈΟ 

used in 
view of the case; for instance, “the murderer of his the same 
mother??:” and we may derive them from a view on WY: 


22 ‘We may perhaps term this third beauty of words, delicacy 
tn their application. 
%3 Nominibus mollire licet mala; fusca vocetur 
Nigrior Ulyrica cui pice sanguis erit, etc. 
Ovid. Ar. Am. 1, ii 


214 ARISTOTLE’S [ BOOK 10. 


the better side; as, the avenger of his father.” And 
Simonides*4, when the victor in a race by mules 
offered him a trifling present, was not disposed to 
write, as though feeling hurt at writing on demi- 
asses; when, however, he offered a sufficient present, 
he composed the poem— 
Hail! Daughters of the generous Horse, 
That skims, like wind, along the course, etc. HarRIs. 
15, ὑπο- and yet they were daughters of asses as well. Again, 
κορισμός. it is possible to express the self-same thing diminu- 
tively. And it is the employment of diminutives 
which renders both good and evil less; just as Aris- 
tophanes jests in “The Babylonians ;” using, instead 
of gold, “a tiny piece of gold;” instead of “a gar- 
ment,” “a little garment ;” instead of “ reproach,” 
ἐς puny reproach ;” and instead of “sickness,” “ slight 
indisposition.” We ought, however, to be careful, 
and always keep to the mean in both cases. 


CHAP. III. 
On Frigidity of Style. 


1. Four Fricrprry!, as dependent on the style, consists in 
ere i four points. In the use of compound words; like 
Revie Lycophron?, where he says, “the many-faced hea- 
i. Com- ven,” and “the mighty-topped earth,” and “the nar- 
pound yow-pathed shore.” And as Gorgias used the 
expression, “a beggarly-mused flatterer,” and “the 
strictly-bound-by-oath and fully-sworn men.” Or 
like Alcidamas, [who talks οἵ] “ the soul replete with 
anger, and the visage waxing fire-coloured.” Again, 


_** See Bentley on Phalaris, p. 156. Zancleans and Messe- 
nians. 

1 Having in the last chapter discussed the beauties of style 
as dependent on single words, he now pruceeds to consider itg 
defects, as they arise from the single words employed: see note 
on chap. ii. ᾧ 2. 

? This Lycophron was a sophist, and is not to be confounded 
with the poet who flourished under Ptolemy Philadelphus. 


CHAP. 111.} RHETORIC. 215 


‘*he supposed their zeal would be completion-work- 
ing ;” and “he settled a completion-working per- 
suasiveness of speech ;” and “the azure-hued level of 
the main.” For all these expressions, by reason of 
their being compounded, appear poetical®, | 

This, then, is one cause: also the employment of 2. ii. Usa 
foreign idioms is one; as when Lycophron calls 9 freiga 
Xerxes, “prodigious hero,” and Sciron, “ baneful 
man‘;” or Alcidamas, when he says, “ gambollings in 
poetry,” and “‘ nature’s improbity,” and “ whetted by 
unrestrained rage of soul.” 

A third description of frigidity consists in the em- 3. iii. Epi 
plyment of epithets either too long, out of place, or po poe 
too frequent; for in poetry, indeed, it is becoming: frequent, 
enough to say “white milk ;” in prose, however, it is et of 
rather bad taste. Some also, should there be a su- το 
perabundance of them, betray [the rhetorician’s art], 
and make it evident that the whole is a mere made-up 
thing ; this, however, you may occasionally avail your- 
self of, since it produces a departure from the ordinary 
style, and renders the diction foreign. Yet ought we 
to aim at the mean; for [the too free indulgence in 
the licence] does more harm than the speaking care- 
lessly ; for the one has no beauty, the other has 
[ positive] fault. Hence it is that the writings of Al- 
cidamas appear frigid; for he employs epithets noé 
as the seasoning, bué as the food, with such profusion 
does he seatter them, and those both too long, and 
where the meaning is self-evident : thus, he does not 
say the sweat, but “‘the motst sweat®:” nor to the 


8 Take the following specimen: “To so vast a height did 
the never-too-much-to-be-ertolled reputation of this eximious 
man,” etc. Sir Thomas Urquhart’s Jewel. See also “ The 
Rejected Addresses ;°** Art. “ Address of the Editors of the 
Morning Post.” 

* The expression in the original alludes to Sinnis, a famous 
rebber, whose peculiar methed of torture it was to bind his 
victims to the boughs of trees forcibly bent together, and sud- 
denly loosened, so that the violence of their reflex tore the 
limbs from their bodies. However a Σέννες ἀνὴρ was probably 
not more elegant in Greek, than the expression “a Turpin” 
is considered in English. 

δ᾽ Victorius thinks that Boccaccio, m his Decameron, has 


Com- 
pound 
words 
suited to 
Dithy- 
rambic 
poetry ; 
exotic to 


216 ARISTOTLE’S ἔβοοκ 11. 


Isthmian games, but “to Isthmus’ full assemblage :” 
nor does -he speak of laws; but of “the laws, the 
sovereigns of states:” nor, of the race; but of “the 
soul’s rapid impulse:” nor of a museum; but of 
“taking nature’s museum with you :” and of “rueful 
care of the soul.” Nor does he speak of favour; but 
of “the fabricator of a whole people’s favour :” and of 
“a dispenser of the pleasure of his audience.” [He 
would not tell you} of branches; but “amid the 
branches of the wood did he conceal it :” nor, that he 
covered his person; but “the nakedness of his per- 
son :” and of “ desire the counter-rival of the soul :” 
(for this is at once a compound word and an epithet, 
so that it becomes poetry:) and of “such an ill- 
omen’d excess of improbity.” Hence those who ex- 
press themselves with this poetic air, produce by their 
want of taste both the ridiculous and the frigid, and 
from their loquacious prosing, become deficient in 
clearness ; for whenever one unnecessarily obtrudes 
any thing on an auditor who already apprehends him, 
putting an end to all perspicuity, he produces ob- 
scurity. 

People, however, do employ compounds, when the 
subject is without a proper appellative, and the com- 
position is easily effected: for instance “pastime ;” 
but if it occur frequently, it is decidedly poetical. 
Wherefore a style characterized by compounds, is 
most available to the Dithyrambic poets; for such 
words are sonorous: exotic words are most useful to 
epic poets®; for they have something dignified and 
superb: metaphor however to iambic verse ; for [ dra- 
matists ] now employ it, as has been already stated. 

Moreover, fourthly, frigidity originatesin metaphor; 
for there are even metaphors which are unbecoming : 
some, from their being ridiculous’; for the writers of 
employed too profusely this poetical ornament. Comment. in 
Demet. Phal. 

6 May we not instance Milton’s Hebraisms? 

7 A striking instance of this occurs in two well-known lines, 
im which Winter is said, 


“ To glaze the lakes, and bridle up the floods, 
And perriwig with wool the bald-pate woods.” 


CHAP. 111. RHETORIC. : 217 


comedy employ metaphor: others, from their being 
too dignified, and having too great an air of tragedy; 
and should they be far-fetched, they become indistinct 5 
like Gorgias, [ when he talks of | things as wan, and 
[again] as ruddy. “You have sown in shame, and 
reaped in ruin;” for this has too much the air of 
poetry. And as Alcidamas, [who calls] “ philosophy 
the rampart of the laws ;’ and “ the Odyssey a beau- 
tiful mirror of human life’.” Again, “introducing 
no such gambolling in poetry :” since all these ex- 
pressions, for the reasons above-mentioned, are des- 
titute of persuasive efficacy. But what Gorgias said 
on a swallow, when in its flight it had muted on him, 
was in the best style of tragedy; for he exclaimed, 
‘Oh! fie Philomela ;” for to a bird, indeed, the act 
was not unbecoming, toa young lady, however, it would 
have been. So that he reproached her neatly enough, 
speaking of her as what she had been, not as what 
she then was. 


CHAP. IV. 
Of Simile, 


THE simile, too, is in fact metaphor; for the differ- 
ence is trifling: for when [the poet] says of Achilles, 
“ Like a lion he leaped on them,” it is a simile; but 
when he says, ‘‘ A very lion he leaped on them,” it is 
a metaphor: for since both are brave, [the poet, | 


8. Such was the language of the poet who, describing the 
footmen’s flambeaux at the end of an opera, sung or said, 
Now blazed a thousand flaming suns, and bade 
Grim night retire. 


Harris, Philolog. Ing 


® However correct Mr. Harris’s taste may be in considering 
this an elegant metaphor, it seems extraordinary that he should 
quote the passage thus: “‘ According to Aristotle, the Odyssey 
of Homer was elegantly called by Alcidamas, καλὸν ἀνθρωπίνου 
βίου κατόπτρον, etc.’ Philolog. Ing. P. ii. c. 10. Surely 
Aristotle does not consider this as an e/egant metaphor. 


"» 


. Simile: 
how it dif- 
fers from 
a meta- 
phor. 


2. Is use- 
ful in 
prose. 


3. In- 
stances of 
similes, 


218 ARISTOTLE’S [Book mt. 


making the transfer, has spoken of Achilles as a lion. 
The simile is useful too in prose, though seldom, since 
it carries with it the air of poetry. And you must 
introduce them just as you would metaphors; for 
they are metaphors differing in that particular which 
has been stated. 

The following are similes ; viz. that which Andro- 
tion employed against Idrieus, that “he was like pup- 
pies loosed from their chain ;” for they rushing at 
people bite them, and Idrieus, too, now that he was 
discharged, was a dangerous person. Again, as The- 
odamus, in a simile, compared Archidamus to Eux- 
enus, without his knowledge of geometry; on the 
principles of similar ratios: for [conversely] Euxenus 
would be Archidamus, had [the latter] a knowledge 
of geometry. Also the instance which occurs in the 
Politeia of Plato, that those who spoil the dead are 
like young dogs, “which bite the stone, without 
touching the person who throws it.” Also the [ si- 
mile] which he employed against the populace, “ that 
it was like a pilot, strong indeed, but rather deaf.” 
And of the metres of poets, “" they are like those in 
the prime of youth who are without beauty ;” for the 
latter having lost their freshness, and the former their 
numerical arrangement, are no longer like the same 
thing. Also the simile of Pericles against the Samians, 
[who said ] “they were like young children, who indeed 
accept the sop, but still cry:” and against the Boeo- 
tians, that “they were like holm-oaks; for these 
holm-oaks are cut down by their own means?, as 
were also the Beotians, in their contests with each 

1 Viz. the insertion of the particle denoting similitudé, ‘QS 
λέων instead of λέων ἐπόρουσεν. 

? Victorius’s conjecture as to the means whereby these trees 
destroy themselves appears rather forced. May there not be 
some allusion to the original of the lately discovered fable of 
Phedrus; in which the trees, having been made to dispute 
about providing a handle for the woodman’s axe, after seeing 
the fatal use he makes of the present, acknowledge that they 
deserve that destruction which they had provided for them- 
selves? The Latin fabulist himself seems to think that his 


master, Ausop, had carried matters too far in making trees 
speak, since he deerss it necessary to apo.ogize ; 


CHAP. IV.] RHETORIC, 219 


other.” And what Demosthenes used before the po- 
pulace, that “‘it is like those who are sea-sick when 
on board.” So, too, Democritus likened the orators 
to nurses, “ who, swallowing the sop themselves, be- 
smear the infants with spittle.” And in the same way 
Antisthenes likened Cephisidotus the slim to frank- 
incense, for “in its consumption it spreads universal 
delight.” 


[ Thus the simile is metaphor], for it is free to you | 


to enunciate all these both as metaphors and as si- 
miles. So that it is plain that as many as, when 
enunciated as metaphors, are approved, will also be- 
come similes; and [vice versd| the similes, when 
without the note [of similitude|, will become meta- 
hors. But the metaphor, which is constructed on 
he principle of similar ratios, ought always to admit 
of paying back [the borrowed term]; as also in other 
cases, and in that of [metaphor ], from species to spe- 
cies: for instance, if a cup be called “the shield of 
Bacchus,” it is also proper to call a shield “the cup 
of Mars.” Of these materials, then, is a discourse 
made up. 


CHAP. V. 
On the Necessity of speaking the Language with Purity. 


Bort purity in speaking your language! is the found- 
ation of all style; and this depends on five particu- 
lars. First, on the connective particles’, whether 


* Calumniari si quis autem voluerit, 
Quod arbores loguantur,” etc. Pheed. Prol. lib. i. 


3 A metaphor is said ἀνταποδίδοσθαι, when it may be in- 
verted: for instance, just as you would call a pilot, “ the 
ruler of his vessel ;”? so may you call a ruler, ‘‘ the pilot of the 
state.” -Ern. Lex. 

! Aristotle having in the last three chapters given us the 
necessary information respecting the materials of style, its sin 
gle words, proceeds now to treat of the arrangement of those 
materials in whole sentences. 

3 One is surprised to find another great critic of antiquity 


4. Meta- 
phors 
must ad- 
mit of 
payin. 
back the 
borrowed 
term, 


1, Purity 
of style 
depends 
on five 
points, 


2 4. Dn 
the con- 
nective 

particles. 


3. ii. In 
using 
terms dis- 
tinct, and 
not vague, 
4, iii, In 
terms not 
ambigu- 
ous. 


220 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK Ill 


one pay them back or not, just as they are of a na- 
ture to precede or follow, and as each requires ; thus, 
although and on my part, require yet and on his part 
[to follow them]. And it is necessary to make a re- 
turn of the one to the other while it is yet recollect- 
ed, and not to susp2nd them at too great intervals: 
neither should we [insert another] connective before 
making a return to the connective which already has 
a claim on us; for in very few instances is this ap- 
propriate. “But I, after he spoke to me, for Cleon 
came up beseeching me and putting it to me, went, 
taking them along with me:” for in these words 
many connectives are thrown in before the first con- 
nective has been paid back ; and if the interval be- 
tween the words “J” and “went” be great, a want 
of clearness takes place. One source then of correct- 
ness originates in the connectives. And a second, in 
the expressing yourself in the appropriate terms, and 
not in generals®, A third, in terms which are not 
ambiguous: this, however, only when you do not de- 
liberately choose the opposite; the very thing which 
they do, who, whilst they have nothing to say, yet 
affect to say something marvellous; for such persons, 
in their invention of somewhat to say, give vent to 
these terms, just as Empedocles did. or the cir- 
cumlocution by its length imposes on people, and the 
auditors are affected in the very self-same way as the 
populace in transactions with soothsayers ; for when 
they utter their ambiguities, they yield assent as 
they go on; [as in the famous oracle], “ Croesus 
having crossed the Halys will overthrow a mighty 
empire.” And it is because the chance of mistake is 
less, that soothsayers express themselves in generals 
on their subject: for in “even and odd*” he will 
more frequently be right who cries [only generally ] 
declaring it unnecessary to be very particular in this respect :— 

ρὴ δὲ Kal τοὺς cuvdécpous μὴ μάλα ἀνταποδίδοσθαι ἀκριβῶς, 
οἷον τῷ μὲν, τὸ δέ. Demet. Phal. περὶ ἑρμηνείας, § 53. 

3 By τοῖς περιέχουσιν is meant, not cireumlocutions, but the 
use of a general instead of a particular term, as ἐρυθρὸς in the 


place of φοῖνιξ, which of course much weakens the idea. 
4 Ludere par impar. Hor. Sat. lib. ii. 3, 248. 


CHAP. vis RHETORIC. 221 


either “even” or “ odd,” than one who would [ specify] 
the exact number; and so one who predicts simply 
that a thing will happen, than he who would subjoin 
when®. On which account the soothsayers never add 
the further divéinction of when.” All these errors 
then are similar; so that, unless it be with a view to 
some such end, they are to be avoided. 

The fourth essential is the preserving the distinc- 
tion which Protagoras marked out between the gen- 
ders of nouns, viz. masculine, feminine, and neuter ; 
for it will be necessary to make these correspond 
correctly, Thus, “She, having come and having 
conversed, departed.” 

The fifth consists in correctly quoting the plural, 
dual, and singular numbers. “They, coming up, 
commenced beating me.” 

In a word, the written style ought to be easily 
read and understood ; and in these requisites it is 
the same [as that of recitation]; the very qualities 
however these which numerous connectives do not 
possess: neither the compositions which it is not 
easy to point, as those of Heraclitus. For the point- 
ing of Heraclitus’ works is quite a task, from its 
being far from clear whether words refer to those 
which precede or those which follow them®. For 
example, in the beginning of his work, “ Of reason 
existing always men are ignorant:” for it is not 
clear to which branch of the sentence we should 
point off the “ always.” 

This moreover produces a solecism; the failure 
in paying back the idea, if, [in the case of two 
words, | you do not bring each under an expression 
adapted to both’: for example, to the words “ colour 


5 Hence the distinguishing superiority of the prophecies of 
our Saviour’s coming; for in them not the simple fact alone, 
but the very period at which it shouid occur was specified. 

§ We can no where find a more striking instance of the want 
of clearness to which a neglect of these cautions gives rise, 
than in book ii. chap. 18, of the worthy Stagyrite’s own work. 

7 Or, to take his own illustration, in speaking of the objects 
of different senses, be careful not to annex a verb which de- 
notes the operation of one sense alone. This is well exposed 


5. iv. In 


the proper 
genders, 


6. v. In 
the propet 
numbers. 


Four ge- 
ner; 

rules, 

i. Style 
ought to 
be easy to 
read and 
to under- 
stand. 

ii, It must 
not de- 
pend on . 
the puno- 
tuation. 


iii. In an 
expres- 
sion of 
more than 
one werd 
we must 


222 ARISTOTLE’S -BOOK 11], 


use ἃ verb or sound,” the expression “seeing” has not a coms 
x espe mon reference; whereas the expression “ perceiving” 
iv. There has. Again, sentences become indistinct, if, delay- 
must be ing to thrust in many intermediate remarks, you do 
Je: . not put first and state [what naturally comes first]. 
Bes, For example, “ For I intended, after I had conversed 
with him on this and that subject, and so on, to 
depart:” not, [stating it naturally thus,] “For I 
intended to depart;” and afterwards introducing, 


“after I had conversed on this and that, and so on.” 


1. Eleva- CHAP, VI. 
tion pro- 
duced by On Elevation of Style. 


seven ex- 

pee Tue following expedients contribute to elevation of 
the def the style, viz.—the employing the definition instead 
nition in of the noun; saying, for instance, not “a circle,” 
piace of _ but “a plane superficies, whose circumference is at 
The re- all points equidistant from the centre.” The reverse, 
verse pro- however, viz. the use of the noun instead of the de- 


d b- δ τὰ . 
sept 34 3 finition, contributes to abruptness. 


εν 2. Again, [the avoiding either, | if it be indelicate or 
oe Natl unbecoming ; i. e. using the noun, if the indelicacy 
ifoutof be in the definition ; or the definition, if it be in the 


ie) yp. noun. 
lustration so, the illustration of the subject by metaphor 


by meta- and epithets, guarding, however, against what savours 
phorand of poetry. And the putting what is but single as 
4. iy. By Many, the thing which the poets do: though the 

ing the haven be but one, yet they tell you of “ Grecian 


using 
plural for havens ;”—and, “the letters’ many-opening folds 1.” 


Also, the not bringing all your words under a 


in the Spectator :—‘‘I have known a hero compared to a thun- 

derbolt, a lion, and the sea; all and each of them proper meta- 

phors for impetuosity, courage, or force. But by bad manage- 

ment it hath so happened, that the thunderbolt hath overflowed 

its banks; the lion hath been darted through the skies; and 

the billows have rolled out of the Libyan desert.” Νο, 595. 
? Eurip. Iph. in Taur. 727. 


OHAP. VI. | RHETORIC. 223 


common particle, but assigning to cach its own: signing 
“ This woman, this my wife.” And the expressing ἴθ each 

; : ‘ , word a 
yourself with a connective ; but if abruptly, without distinct 
a connective indeed, though not unconnectedly ; for particle. 


instance, “ Having departed and having spoken to “- 


Σ ξ : vi. Usin 
him ;” or, “having departed, I spoke to him.” Mate: fi τ 
The precept of Antimachus, too, is of service, viz. tives, but 


the drawing your expressions from absent qualities”, phere 


which he does in celebrating the hill Teumessus, out them. 


[commencing, | “ There is a certain little hill visited 7. vi. By 
by the winds®;” for thus the subject is carried on to qualities. 


infinity. And this expedient holds good alike in the 
case of qualities which are good, and such as are 
bad‘, just as the subject has them not, in whichever 
way it may be of service. Hence the poets deduce 
their expressions®, the “stringless” and the “lyre- 
less melody ;” for they build their epithets on priva- 
tives. And this expedient is also approved in ana- 
logical metaphors; for instance, the saying of “a 
trumpet,” that it is a “lyreless harmony.” 


- 3 How much may be made of a mere summary of negations, 
will readily be acknowledged by those who have read Roches- 
ter’s poem on Nothing; and another in Latin on the same 
subject (if subject it may be called), by Passerat, a poet and 
critic of the sixteenth century,in France. This last is usually 
subjoined to Johnson’s Life of Rochester. 

3 These words, it will be observed, do not in themselves 
afford an instance of the precept here recommended ; but, as it 
appears that the work of Antimachus was well known, they 
were probably intended as a hint at a passage in which an 
illustration was to be found. Of Aristotle’s quotations in ge- 
neral, it may be remarked that, however naturally we might 
expect to meet with beautiful passages, in illustration of the 
several beauties of style which he successively discusses, they 
present but a series of allusions (now obscure and scarcely in- 
telligible), to passages which were easily accessible to his au- 
dience, but which have been lost to us amid the general wreck 
of ancient literature. See Victorius’s remark, cap. 111. § 3. 

4 Whether in praising or blaming. 

5 It should be remembered that these negative epithets are 
very common to the Greek poets. Victorius points out many 
instances: as, κῶμον ἀναυλότατον, Eurip. Phen. 818; Oiacoy 
ἀβάκχευτον, Orest. 319; μηνυτῆρος ἄφθεγκτου, ANsch. Eumen. 
245; ἀπτεροῖς πωτήμασιν, ibid. 250, etc. There is a fine in- 
stance of this negative mode of explaining a metaphor in Isaiah, 
li. 21 —“ Thou drunken, but not with wine.’ Twining. _ 


1. What 
consti- 
tutes good 
taste in 
style is, 
that it be 
παθητικὴ, 


ἠθική: 


suitably 
to the 
subject- 
matter. 


8. παθη- 
τικὴ ren- 
ders the 
audience 
sympa- 
thetic. 


6. ἠθικὴ 
renders 
thespeech 
appropri- 
ate to the 
audience, 


224 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK 11 


CHAP. VII. 
Of the becoming in Style, 


STYLE will possess the quality of being in good taste, 
if it be expressive at once of feeling and character, 
and in proportion to! the subject-matter. This pro- 
portion, however, is preserved, provided the style be 
neither careless on questions of dignity, nor dignified 
on such as are mean: neither to a mean word let or- 
nament be superadded; otherwise it appears mere 
burlesque ; as Cleophon uses to do; for he has ex- 
pressed some things equally ridiculously, as though 
he were to say, ‘‘ August fig-tree.” 

But [the style] expressive of feeling, supposing 
the case be one of assault, is the style of a man in a 
passion ; if, however, it be one of loathsomeness and 
impiety, the expressing yourself with disgust and 
painful caution; if, however, the case demand praise, 
with exultation ; if pity, with submission ; and so on 


. in the other cases. Andastyle which is appropriate, 


moreover, invests the subject with persuasive efficacy. 
For the mind is cheated into a persuasion, that the 
orator is speaking with sincerity, because, under such 
circumstances, men stand affected in that manner. 
So that people suppose things to be even as the 
speaker states them, what though, in reality, they are 


. not: and the hearer has a kindred feeling with the 


orator, who expresses himself feelingly, even should 
he say nothing to the purpose; availing themselves 
of which, many bear down their hearers in the storm 
of passion. 

But moreover, this mode of showing by means of 
signs is expressive of character; because, on every 
condition and habit of life, is consequent a language 
suited to it. I use the expression condition, in refer- 
ence to the stage of life ; as youth, manhood, or age ; 
and [to the sex], as man, or woman; and [to na- 


1 Might we borrow an expression from the language cf the 
painter, we should say. “in proper KEEPING with.” 


CHAP. ViI.] RHETORIC. 225 


tion}, as Lacedemonian, or Thessalian. [I mean] 
by habits, those conformably to which one is of a 
certain character in life; for it is not according to 
every habit that the life assumes a certain character : 
if then one express himself in the language appro- 
priate to the habit, he will produce the effect of being 
characteristic; for a rustic and a man of education, 
will express themselves neither in the same words, 
nor in the same manner. And the auditors are 
affected, in some way, by that feeling of which the 
declaimers avail themselves, till it nauseates ; [put- 
ting it to their audience thus |, “ who knows not ?”— 
“all men know it.” For the auditor acknowledges 
with a kind of confusion, that he participates [in that 
information | which all the rest of the world possess. 
The employment of them opportunely, or inoppor- 
tunely, is, however,.a consideration common to every 
species | of ornament |; but for every excess | in them ], 
there is that corrective which is in the mouth of every 
body ; for, of yourself, you should append a reproof 
on yourself ; for it appears in reality [an ornament], 
at least since the use of it does not escape the notice of 
the speaker himself. Further, the speaker is not at 
once to employ every thing which is proportionate ; 
for thus the hearer has the deceit passed off on him. 
I mean that, if the terms be harsh, he is not to em- 
ploy a harsh tone and expression of countenance, and 
the other peculiarities [of harshness |: if this caution 
be not observed, [our artifices | severally appear what 
they really are. But if he employ some and not 
others, without observation he produces the same 


effect. Still, if expressions of softness be uttered | 


harshly, and such as are harsh with softness, they 
become divested of eflicacy to persuade. But com- 
pound words, and a plurality of epithets, and foreign 
idioms, are appropriate chiefly to one who speaks 
under the excitement of some passion ;—for with one, 
[for instance, | who is affected by anger, we have a 
fellow-feeling in his calling his wrongs ‘‘heaven- 
measuring,” or “prodigious :” they are so, too, when 
one is already master of his audience, and has 


7. 


8. Gene- 
ral rules. 


9. We 
must cor- 
rect our- 
selves as 
it were. 


10. We 
must oc- 
casionally 
neglect . 
the rules 
ofart. , 


11. We 
must not 
use com- 
pound 
words ex- 
cept wher 
excited 


1. The 
style must 
have 
rhythm, 
but not 
metre, 


226 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 31%, 


wrought them up to enthusiasm, either by panegyric 

or invective, by [the excitement ] of anger or friendly 

feeling ; the which Isocrates does in “The Panegy- 

ric,” near the conclusion ; “—the record and remem- 

brance ;” and, “men who had the spirit—.” For. 
the speaker, in a transport of enthusiasm, gives 

utterance to expressions such as these ; so that the 

audience also, being forsooth similarly affected them-. 
selves, readily welcome them, Wherefore they are 
adapted to poetry; for poetry is the language of 
enthusiasm. 

It is, then, either in this way [that we are to em- 
ploy poetical expressions], or a irony; as Gorgias: 
was in the habit.of doing ; and [as Socrates does | in 
the Phedrus [of Plato]. 


CHAP. VIII. 
Of Rhythm. 


Tue modelling of the diction should, however, be 
neither metrical nor without rhythm!: for the first 
has no persuasive efficacy (since it appears to have: 
been got up), and at the same time it also draws off 
[the attention]; for it causes one to fix his attention 
on the similarities of cadence, when they will recur 
again; just in the way that little children anticipate 
the crier; (for when he demands,—“‘ Whom does 
this freedman choose as his patron?”—([they ex- 
claim], “Cleon :”) that, however, which is without 


. rhythm, has no measure. The diction ought, however, 


to be measured, yet without metre; for what is desti- 
tute of measure is displeasing and indistinct. But 
by number all things are measured; and in model- 
ling the diction, the number is rhythm!, of which 

1 In pursuance of that systematic plan which we have re- 
marked that Aristotle has adopted in considering the subject 


of style, he proceeds here to treat of it as addressed to the ear. 
2 “ Rhythm differs from metre, inasmuch as rhythm is pro . 


CHAP. στ. RHETORIC. 227 


the metres are certain divisions*, Hence the sentence 8. 
should possess rhythm, though not metre; for then 
it will become verse; and its very rhythm should be 
without preciseness. This, however, will be the case 
if, up to a certain point, it be preserved. 

But of the rhythms, the heroic is stately, and not 4. 
adapted to conversation, and deficient in varied ca- pe ec 
dence; the iambic, however, is the very style of the ings. 
multitude ; whence it is that persons in conversation Heroic. 
give utterance to iambic lines, most of all metres, mbic. 
But [in a speech] there should be a degree of stateli- 
ness and departure from [the ordinary phrase]. Yet Trochaic 
the trochaic metre is too tripping*; and all tetrame- 
ters show it; for tetrameters are a kind of dancing 
rhythm®. But the pzan remains, which orators, com- Pean. 
mencing with Thrasymachus, began to employ; they 
were not, however, able to explain what it was. Yet 
the pzan is the third, and comes next to those 
{rhythms | which have been mentioned; for it is as 
three to two. But of the former [rhythms, the ratio Ratios of 
is] of the one, [the heroic,] as one to one; of the th 

ἃ “ Ἂ rhythms, 
others, [the iambic and trochaic, | as two to one®. But 
portion applied to any motion whatever; metre is proportion, 
applied to the motion of words spoken.’’ Harris. ‘“ The 
rhythm of a dactyl and anapest is the same; the metre is dif- 
ferent. The distinction is similar to that of permutations and 
combinations in arithmetic.’”’ Seale, Analysis of Greek Me- 
tres. Metre, in short, cannot exist independently of articulate 
sounds ; while rhythm may be heard in any proportionate suc- 
cession of sounds; as in the ringing of hammers on an anvil, 
or the flapping of the wings of a bird. 

3 Metre is distinctly stated, in the Poetic, to be a species of 
rhythm Harris also says, “ All metre is rhythm, yet all 
rhythm is not metre.” Philolog. Ing. P. ii. c. 2. 

4 Twining illustrates it by the following line :— 

** Jolly mortals, fill your glasses; noble deeds are done 
by wine.”’ 

5 Kopdaxixwtepos—namby-pamby : κόρδαξ was a species of 
immodest, lascivious dance. 

€ As the Greeks considered a long syllable as equivalent to 
two times, and a short only to one, two short syllables were of 
course equivalent to one lung; so that, in either of the feet of 
which heroic metre is composed, a ratio of equality exists ; 

(for- instance, in the dactyl, ~:~’ :: 2:1 and 1; or, in the 
spondee, ~:~::;2.,2.) The same observation wil explain the 


Q 2 


6. The 
gan is to 
e retain- 


6, Two 
sorts of 
ean. 
he first 
suited to 
the open- 
ing. 
The se- 
cond to 
the con- 
clusion. 


228 ARISTOTLE’S [Book 122. 


next to these ratios ranks that of whole and half?; 
and this is the pean. The others then are to be 
abandoned for the reasons stated, and because they 
are resolvable into verse: the pzean is, however, to 
be retained; since out of that only rhythm, of all 
which have been mentioned, it is not possible to con- 
struct any metre; so that [in employing it] most of 
all rhythms, an orator will elude detection’. 

At present, indeed, the orators employ one pean, 
[as well in concluding] as on opening; the conclu- 
sion, however, ought to differ from the opening [of a 
speech]. And there are two species of pzans, op- 
posed to each other; whereof the one is adapted to 
the opening, (just, in fact, as they employ it;) this is 
that one of which the long syllable is first, and the 
three short ones at the end, [as in the word | Δαλδγένξς, 
and Xpvctoxéna. The other, however, contrariwise, 
is that whereof the three short syllables are first, and 
the long at the end, [as in the conclusion of the line ]|— 


ratio of the iambus, (‘: ~::1:2,) and the trochee (~:*::2:1), 
Now the pean (7 : ~:: 3:2) holds a mean ratio between 
that of the heroic metre on the one hand, and that of the 
iambic and trochaic respectively on the other; the ratio of the 
former being merely that of equality, while the ratio of the 
latter was too much in excess, 

7 “HutoAcos—sesquiduplex—a whole and half besides ;—~ 
** Necesse—partem pedis aut equalem esse alteri parti; aut 
altero tanto, aut sesqui esse majorem. Ita fit equalis, dacty- 
lus; duplex, iambus; sesquiplex, peeon.’’—Cicero, Orat. c. 56. 

8 Though the illustrations already given have been perhaps 
too prolix, I cannot forbear transcribing the following passage 
from Harris, in illustration of the whole subject :—‘ The 
rhythm of the heroic foot is one to one, which constitutes, in 
music, what we call common time; and in musical vibration, 
what we call the wnison. The rhythm of the iambic is one to 
two, which constitutes, in music, what we call triple time; 
and in musical vibration, what we call the octave. The 
rhythm next to these, is that of two to three, or else its equiva- 
lent, three to two; a rhythm compounded of the two former 
times united; and which constitutes, in musical vibration, 
what we call the fifth. ’Twas here then they discovered the 
foot they wanted; that foot which, being neither the heroic 
nor the iambic, was yet so far connected with them, as to con- 
tain virtually within «self the rhythms of them both.”—Phi- 
ἰυίυς. Ing. P. ii. c. 2, 


CHAP. 1x." RHETORIC. 229 


Μετὰ δὲ γᾶν ὕδατά τ᾽ ὠκεανὸν᾽ Hpavics νυξ. 

Afterwards night obscured both earth, and water, and ocean. 
This [ pzean] makes a good conclusion; whereas the 
short syllable, owing to its being incomplete, renders 
the sentence mutilated. But it is right to break off 
with a long syllable, for your conclusion to be clearly 
marked, not by means of the amanuensis, nor merely 
by annotations on the margin, but by means of the 
rhythm. 

That, then, the diction should be conformable to 
rhythm, and not deficient in it, the particular rhythms 
too which will render it so conformable, and these 
under what arrangement, have been stated. 


CHAP. IX. 
Of Style continuous and its opposite*. 


THE style must needs be either continuous, and united 1. Style 
by means of connectives, just like the protracted odes 38 of two 


of the dithyrambic poets?; or reflex, and like the a Snd ae 


antistrophic odes of the old poets. κατε- 
Now the continuous style is the old style, as, “" This ney tales 

is the exposition of the historical research of Hero- 9, ;, ‘slpos 

dotus, of Thurium%,” ete. For formerly indeed every seats 


rupted, ᾿ 

1 Style is here considered as addressed to the intellect of the 
auditor. 

3 Λέξις εἰρομένη, in which the sentence has no other unity 
than that which copulatives give it, nor any other measure 
than the completion of the sense, and the necessity of taking 
breath; or, as Cicero in few words so admirably describes it, 
“‘illa sine tntervallis loquacitas perennis et profluens.” This 
Aristotle compares to what he calls the ἀναβολαὶὲ in dithyram- 
bic poetry; meaning, I think, evidently the long, irregular, 
protracted odes of the more modern dithyrambic poets: for 
the word ἀναβολὴ, here, does not, I believe, signify exordium, 
proemium, as usually understood, but was, probably, the name 
by which ὠδαὶ μακραὶ καὶ πολυειδεῖς were distinguished,’ ete. 
—Twining, note 17, 

3. Herodotus, though a native of Halicarnassus, went latterly 
ΔΆ a colonist to Thurium. 


Defini- 
tion of it. 


3. Reflex 
style in 
periods, 


is pleas- 
ing. 


Easily re- 
member- 
ed. 


230 ARISTOTLE’S | BOOK mm. 


one employed it, but now very few. I call that 
continuous, which in itself has no termination, 
should not the circumstance under narration have 
been terminated. But it is unpleasant, from its 
being indefinite; for all like to descry the end. 
Wherefore it is that racers pant and faint away just 
at the turn; for before, while they have the goal in 
view before them, they do not tire. ‘The continuous 
style, then, is this. 

But the reflex is that which consists of periods. 
I call a period a form of words which has independ- 
ently in itself a beginning and ending, and a length 
easily taken in at a glance. A diction of this descrip- 
tion is pleasing, and easily conveys information : now 
it is pleasing from its being the opposite of that 
which is indefinite*; and because the hearer all along 
supposes that he is securing something, from the cir- 
cumstance that something is constantly finished off 
for him; but the not foreseeirg nor despatching any 
thing is unpleasant: and it easily conveys informa- 
tion, because it is easily remembered ; this, however, 
is the case, because the diction which consists of pe- 
riods has number, which of all things is most easily 
recollected. And hence every one remembers verse 
better than prose; for it has numbers by which it is 
measured. ‘The period ought also to be terminated 
with the sense, and not to be interrupted like this 
verse of Sophocles,— 

Pi While other sentences are indefinite, and (like a 
geometrical right line) may be produced indefinitely, the pertod 
(like a circular line) is always circumscribed, returns and 
terminates at a given point. In other words, while other sen- 
tences, by the help of common copulatives, have a sort of 
boundless effusion, the constituent parts of a period have a 
sort of reflex union, in which union the sentence is so far com- - 
plete, as neither to require, nor even to admit a further exten- 
sion. Readers find a pleasure in this grateful circuit, which 
teads them so agreeably to an acquisition of knowledge.” 
Harris, Philolog. Inq. P. ii. c. 4. He quotes the commence- 
ment of his own Hermes and Philosophical Arrangements, 
with the opening of Cicero’s Offices, Demosthenes’ Oration 
concerning the Crown, and that of the Panegyric by Isocrates, 
(whom he calls the father of periods,) ag instances of period. 
ical style. 


CHAP. Ix.] RHETORIC, 231 


“ This is Calydon, land of the territory of Pelops*.” 
For by dividing it is possible to understand the con- 
trary [of the fact], as in the case of the instance 
cited, that Calydon is in Peloponnesus. 

A period either consists of clauses, or is simple. 5. A pe- 
But the period consisting of clauses is a mode of πος 
speech perfect and distinct, and easily pronounced clauses or 
at a breath; not, however, at the point of division, simple. 
like the fore-mentioned period, but altogether. And 
a clause is one subdivision of it. By a simple period, 

I mean one consisting of a single clause. 

But neither the clauses nor the periods ought to 6. They 

be either curtailed or prolix; for their brevity often See 
causes the hearer to feel a hitch; since it needs must tailed. 
be, if while he is yet [in thought] hastening onward, 
that limit of termination which he conceives within 
himself happens to be thrown back by the speaker’s 
ceasing, that a kind of hitch, as it were, occurs, owing 
to the impulse backward. Those, however, which Nor pro 
are prolix cause the hearer to be left behind ; just me 
as they who make the turn too far on the outside of 
the goal, for they don’t keep up with those walking 
with them®; and in a similar way, periods which are 
prolix grow into an oration, and are something like 
a desultory ode’. So that that occurs which Demv- 
critus, the Chian, joked Melanippides about, viz. that 
he produced desultory odes instead of antistrophes. 
“A man in framing a nuisance for others, frames 
one for himself; and long tedious odes are the great- 
est nuisance to him who produces them®;” for it is 
appropriate enough to hold such language as this 
respecting the framers of prolix clauses. But those 
which are brief in their clauses do not, in fact, be- 
come periods; therefore they draw on the hearer by 
fits and starts. 


5 This line is found quoted by Lucian, as taken from a 
drama of Euripides, no longer extant, entitled Meleager. 

ὁ Probably an English sergeant would have illustrated this 
by a column wheeling into line. 

7 See the note on § 1 of this chapter. 

® A neat parody this on Hesiod, Opp. et Ὁ. v. 263. 


7. Style 
ot periods 
is either 
διῃρημένη 
oY ἀντι- 
κειμένη, 


232 ARISTOTLE’S ἴβοοκ τί. 


Of style which consists of periods, one species is 
merely divided [by disjunctives |, another has an an- 
tithesis. Simply divided, as, “1 have often felt sur- 
prised at those who convened the general assemblies 
and 5 established the gymnastic contests.” The style, 
however, which has antithesis, is that in which, in 
each clause, either there is one contrary put in con- 
junction with another, or the same is linked in con- 
nexion with contraries: as, ‘ They benefited both, as 
well those who remained behind, as those who joined 
the expedition; since they made acquisitions for the 
latter more than they possessed at home; while to 
the former they abandoned, in what remained at 
home, a full competence.” 'The ideas set in opposition 
are,—staying behind,—joining the expedition ; com- 
petence,—more. [And in this sentence]: “So that 
both to those who wanted money, and to those who 
desired to enjoy it,” etc. Here enjoyment stands op- 
posed to acquisition. And again: “It happens fre- 
quently in these cases, that while the prudent fal, 
the simple succeed.” —“ Forthwith, indeed, they claim- 
ed the prize of highest valour, and not long after they 
gained the sovereignty of the sea.””—“ That he sazled, 
indeed, through the main land, and marched across 
the sea; joining with a bridge the Hellespont, while 
he channelled through mount Athos.” Again: “That, 
citizens though they were by birth, they were yet de- 
prived by law of their franchise in the eety.”—“ W hile 
some of them miserably perished, others were dis- 
gracefully preserved.” Again: “ That privately, in- 
deed, he employed barbarian slaves ; while ix public 
he allowed many of the alties to be in slavery :"— 
“ Hither they would possess it while alive, or leave τὲ 
behind when dead.” Again, the expression which 
some one made use of against Pitholaus and Lyco- 
phron in the court: “They sold you, indeed, when 
they were at home; but when they were come to us, 
they were themselves bought.”—For all these [anti- 
theses | produce the fore-mentioned effect. 


® “In hoc loco τὸ καὶ non tam copulandi, quam discernendi 
“im habet’’? Ernest. Lex. Tech. 


cHapP. 1x.] RHETORIC. 233 


And a style of this description is pleasing, because 
contraries are most easily apprehended, and, when 
set by each other’s side, they become still more easy ,/ 
of apprehension : and because they bear a resemblance \ ik 
to a reasoning process; for the elenchus is an infer-| KX 
ence of contraries. Such, then, is antithests :—but ani3. Equé 
equipoise occurs if the clauses be equal ; and allitera- pote 
tion, if each of the clauses have its extremities simi- σις. 
lar: and [this similarity] it needs must have either Allitera- 
at the beginning or ending; and the beginning al- 7°" _ 
ways has original words [similar!°]; but the ending, poiwors, 
either last syllables [which are similar], or inflections 
of the same word, or the same word itself. [Instances 
of alliteration | at the beginning, are as follow"!: 

᾿ΑΤΓΡὸν yap ἔλαβεν "APT Sv παρ᾽ αὐτοῦ, 
For he received from him land untill’d. 


Δωρητοί 7 ’EILEXovto, παράῤῥητοί τ᾽ ᾽ἜΠΕεσσιν 
By presents pleased, by words appeased. 


And at the ending, thus: 


᾿Ωήθησαν αὐτὸν παιδίον reroOKENAL, ἀλλ᾽ αὐτοῦ αἴτιον yeyo 
ΝΕΝΑΙ. 

They thought that he was the father, but that there was a 
cause for it. 


Ἔ» πλείσταις φρονΤΊΣΙ, καὶ ἐν ἐλαχίσταις ἐλπῖτΣΙ. 
Anxiety at the highest, hope at the lowest. 


Inflections of the same word,—“ What! give hima 
brazen statue who did not deserve a brass farthing ?” 
The same word,—“ In his life you spoke εἰ of him, 


10 Τῇ you would produce alliteration at the commencement 
of a clause, you rust employ words which, in their original 
form and previously to any inflection, are similar ; since in that 
situation, a similarity will fail of striking you which depends 
merely on one or two syllables at the end of the words, such 
as may be found to exist, in a greater or lesser degree, between 
ali nouns of the same declension, etc. (6. g. Latin nouns of the 
third declension ending in 0); at the conclusion, however, of 
a clause, a weaker and less striking similarity will suffice. 
Compare his jirst example with those following the words 
ἐπὶ τελευτῆς. 

1 As no English words occur to me which will at once exe 
empliiy the alliteration, and prove a literal translation of the 
Greek, I have set down the original words as I find them, 
They have been given in Latin thus,—AGRum accepit 
LEG Rum ab ipso. 


Same 
words 
may have 
antithe- 
sis, equi- 
poise, and 
rhyme at 
once. 

10. False 
antithe- 
ses, 


1. Elegan- 
cies and 
approved 
beauties 
of style. 


2. The 
funda- 
mental 
principle 
is μάθη- 
ols. 


' Metaphor 
produces 
this, 


234 ARISTOTLE’S [Ξοοκ mr 


and now after his death you write ill.” Andona 
single syllable,—‘“ What ill would you have suffered, 
if you had witnessed an indolent man ?” 

And it is possible for the same words to possess, at 
the same time, all these ; and for the same example to 
be both an antithesis, equipoised, and having rhyme. 
But the heads of periods have nearly been enumerat- 
ed in my Rhetoric to Theodectes. Also there are 
false antitheses, such as Epicharmus was in the habit 
of making: as, “Once was I in their [country | ; 
once was I among them.” 


CHAP. X. 


Whence are quoted the Elegancies and. approved Beauties 
of Style. 


But as a detail of these subjects has been given, we 
must state whence the elegancies and approved. beau- 
ties [of style] are derived. Now the power of in- 
venting them belongs, either to the man of high na- 
tural genius, or to one of talent chastened by discipline; 
but to exhibit the sources of them is the business of 
this system; wherefore, let us treat of, and fully 
enumerate them. 

And let this be our fundamental prixciple: for the 
receiving information with ease, is naturally pleasing 
to 411}; and nouns are significant of something ; so 
that all those nouns whatsoever which produce know- 
ledge in the mind, are most pleasing. Now, the fo- 
reign expressions are unintelligible; and words of 
common use we already understand. But the meta- 
phor in the highest degree produces this effect [ of 

iving pleasure]; for when the poet calls old age 
“stubble,” he produces in us a knowledge and in- 


1 See this principle of pleasure stated in book i. ὁ. 11, § 23. 
Again, (book ii. c. 24, § 30,) refutative enthymems are prefer- 
red to confirmative on the same principle,—é:a τὸ συναγωγὴν 
ἐναντίων εἶναι ἐν MIKPQ 


cuir, x.! RHETORIC. 235 


formation by means of a common genus”; for both 
are past their prime. Now, the similes of the poets 
also produce the same effect ; on which account, should 
they be neatly managed, an elegance strikes you. 
For the simile, as has been remarked before*, is me- 
taphor with the difference of the addition [of a par- 
ticle denoting similitude |; on which account it is less 
pleasing, because more at length: and it does not 
assert that “this is that;” the mind therefore does 
not at all require it‘. 

It cannot but be, then, both that the style and the 
arguments which render the act of information rapid, 
are elegant; on which account, neither are superfi- 
cial arguments held in approbation ; (for, by super- 
ficial, 1 mean such as are obvious to every one, and 
which require no search;) nor those which, when 
stated, are not understood®: but all those whatsoever 
which are apprehended, either simultaneously with 
their being uttered, (supposing even that no previous 
knowledge of them existed,) or by which the intellect 
is a little left behind; for there accrues, as it were, a 
piece of information ; in the two former cases, how- 
ever, none. 

As far, then, as respects the meaning of what is 
said, reasonings of this description are approved; but 


3. and 
‘tie 


produee 
rapid μά- 
θησις are 
elegant. 


5. The ex- 


pression 
must be 


as to the expression, if they be worded (in figure) antitheti- 
antithetically®; as, “deeming the common peace of ¢al. 


2 “ By the genus; that is, where the common quality which 
constitutes the likeness immediately occurs,” etc. Twining. 
This metaphor, according to the distinction of the Poetic, 
would be called ἀπ᾽ εἰδοῦς ἐπὶ eldos—from one species of things 
decayed to another. 

3 In the fourth chapter of this book. 

‘ For the mind, hurrying on to obtain further information 
respecting the object in question, without pausing to ascertain 
what it is like or equal to, desires only to know what it. really 
ts. See chap. 4, ὁ lL. 

5 The case with these two descriptions of argument is the 
same as with the γλῶτται and κύρια ὀνόματα respectively. 
With this passage compare book ii. c. 24, § 30. 

6 The consideration of ἀστεῖα having been ranged under the 
heads of their διάνοια and λέξις, he proceeds here to subdivide 
his discussion οὗ λέξις, in reference to its whole sentences, 


Three 
things to 
be aimed 
at: meta- 
phor, an- 
tithesis, 
personifi- 
cation. 

7. Meta- 
phors are 
fourfold : 
analogical 
ones the 
best. 


236 ARISTOTLE’S [paok 11}. 


the rest, a very war to their individual interests :” 
here “war” is opposed to “ peace ;” and (in single 
words) if they possess metaphor, and this neither far- 
fetched, for it will be difficult to view it in connexion ; 
nor superficial, for it produces no effect: and, more- 
over, if they place the object before your eyes ; for it 
needs must be, that one sees more clearly what is ac- 
tually in the course of being done, than what is about 
to be. We ought then to aim at three things, meta- 
phor, antithesis, and personification’. 

But of metaphor, which is fourfold,’ that species 
is in the highest degree approved which is construct- 
ed on similar ratios ; just as Pericles said, “that the 
youth which had perished in the war, had so vanished 
from the city, as if one were to take the spring from 
the year’.” And Leptines, speaking of the Laceda- 
monians, “ that he would do all in his power to pre- 
vent Greece from being deprived of an eye.” And 
Cephisodotus, when Chares was eager to present the 
accounts about the Olynthiac war, grew nettled, and 
said, “ Now that he has got the populace with their 
necks in a halter, he is endeavouring to present his 
accounts.” Again, when he once was exhorting the 
Athenians, as they were going for provisions, to go 
to Eubcea for them, he said, ‘‘ the decree of Miltiades 
should go forth to the expedition.” And Iphicrates, 
when the Athenians had made a league with Epidau- 
rus and the neighbourhood of the coast, was indig- 
nant, and exclaimed that, “of themselves they had 


(i. 6. its figure, σχήμα,) or its single words, (i. 6. what is 
usually called trope). 

7 From the variety of words by which. ἐνέργεια has been 
rendered, “* personification’? has been selected, as approaching 
the nearest to the correspondent expression, πρὸ ὀμμάτων. 
The effect is produced by representing inanimate objects as 
the agents in any thing: thus, “‘ pontem indignatus Araxes.” 
See the next chapter. 

6 A metaphorical word is a word transferred from its proper 
sense, either from genus to species, or from species to genus, or 
from one species to another, or in the way of analogy. Poet. 
xxi. transl. by Twining. See chap. 2, § 14, seq. 

® See book i, 7, § 84. Herodotus puts a similar expression 
in the mouth of Gelon, book vii. 162. 


ofAR. χα RHETORIC. 237 


cut off the very provision of the war.” And Pitho- Various 
laus called [the state yacht] Paralus, “the mace of "stances 


the populace ;” and Sestus, “ the corn-chest of the proved 


Pirzus.” And Pericles bade them away with gina, αν ~~ 


“the eye-sore of the Pireus.” And Meerocles said, 
‘that he was no more a knave than the other,” nam- 
ing some good sort of man; “since that person in- 
deed played the rogue at the rate of. thirty per cent., 
himself however merely at ten per cent. usury.” 
And that iambie verse of Anaxandrides on his 
daughters, who were long in getting married: ‘The 
virgins have forfeited the nuptial recognisance'!.” 
And that saying of Polyeuctus about one Speusippus, 
who was struck by apoplexy, “that he was unable to 
keep quiet, bound as he was by fortune in a complete 
pillory of a disease.” Cephisodotus, too, used to call 
_the triremes, “ painted corn-mills :” as did the Cynic 
Diogenes the taverns, ‘the public tables? of Athens.” 
/Esion, too, used the expression, “pouring out the 
city into Sicily,” (for this is metaphorical, and sets 
the object before the eyes,) “so that all Greece ez- 
claimed ;” and this too is in a certain way a metaphor, 
and personifies. And as Cephisodotus bade them be 


10 The highest rate of interest (τόκος) permitted among the 
Greeks appears to have been one third of the principal 
(ἐπίτριτος) ; the lowest rate which was usual was one tenth 
merely of the principal (ἐπιδέκατος) : so that Mcrocles was 
less a villain than this ἐπιεικὴς, in the same ratio in which ten 
per cent. was less usurious than three and thirty. The meta- 
phor, however, is stated by some as resulting from the come 
parison of the ratio of chara:ter to the ratio of usury; and by 
others, from the application of the general word, πονηρεύεσθαι, 
to the transactions of usurers in particular. It will be ob- 
served, that in translating ἐπίτριτος, the round numbers have 
been taken. 

1! Addison, too, classes certain of his fair readers (though 
certainly differently circumstanced from the daughters of Anax- 
andrides) under the metaphorical appellation of “‘ demurrers,” 
borrowed from the English legal nomenclature. See Specta- 
tor, No. 89. 

12 Φειδίτια, the public tables of Lacedemon, remarkable for 
their plainness and frugality: so that, in saying that the only 
φειδίτια of Athens were its taverns, Diogenes conveyed a most. 
bitter sarcasm against the manners of its citizens, 


e 


238 RISTOTLE’S {s00K IIL 


on their guard, “ lest they rendered their very popu- 
lar assemblies so many rows ;’”’ just as Isocrates, also, 
| used the expression | of persons “ making a row in the 
general convention.” And as in the funeral speech 
[of Lycias], “ there was reason for Greece to shear 
her locks over the grave of those who fell at Salamis, 
since her liberty had been buried jointly with their 
valour :” for had he said that ‘‘ there was reason she 
should weep, her liberty having been buried with 
them ;” it would indeed have been a metaphor, and 
have given personification; but the words, “their 
valour,” “her liberty,” convey a kind of antithesis. 
And, as Iphicrates said, ‘‘ The path of my arguments 
is through the midst of the actions of Chares :” the 
metaphor here is on similar ratios, and the expres- 
sion, ‘‘ through the midst,” produces personification. 
Also the saying, ‘‘ that he challenged dangers to be 
his allies against dangers,” is both a personification 
and a metaphor. And Lycoleon, pleading for Cha- 
brias, said, “ [ What, not pardon him] out of a respect 
for the suppliancy'* of his brazen statue :” for in the 
then crisis it was a metaphor, but not always; but 
the personification [was perpetual]; for pending his 
trial the statue acts as suppliant, the inanimate as an 
animated object,—‘ that memento of the exploits of 
the state.” Again, “ Making it their study, by every 
means, to think meanly ;” [ this is metaphorical, | since 
study is with a view to advance [not to diminish }. 
And the expression that “ God has kindled the intel- 
lect as a light in the soul ;” for both in a certain sense 
illuminate.—“ For we put no period to our wars, but 
put them off ;” since both putting off, and a peace of 

13 Chabrias seems to have been the first who ordered his 
troops to assume a kneeling position in receiving the charge of 
an enemy: at the time when he adopted this manceuvre, he 
headed some Athenian troops auxiliary to the Beotians, and 
completely succeeded in repulsing the forces of Agesilaus. 
This improvement in tactics seems to have been so favourably 
received, that statues were decreed him to be erected in the 
attitude of kneeling. Ὁ δὲ Χαβρίας πολλῶν αὐτῷῴ πεπραγμένων 
κατὰ πόλεμον, ἐπὶ τούτῳ μάλιστα ἐσημνεύετο τῷ στρατηγύματι, 
καὶ τὰς ὑπὸ τοῦ δήμου δοθείσας αὐτῷ καθίστανεν ἐχούσας τοῦτο 


τὸ σχῆμα Diodorus Siculus, 15. 


ταν 


CHAP XI.] | RHETORIC. 239 


this description, are alike things of the future. And 
again, the declaring “that a truce was a trophy more 
splendid than those won in war; since the latter was 
the result of a trivial occurrence or a single accident, 
the former were the result of the whole tenour of 
the war ;” for both [agree in being] indications of 
victory. And, that “states pay a heavy punishment 
to the censure of mankind ;” for punishment is a sort 
of hurt consonant to justice "4, 

Thus, then, it has been stated that the elegancies 
result from metaphor constructed on similar ratios, 
and from personification. 


CHAP. XI. 
Of Personification. 


this effect results. I mean, i. that those expres- ae 
sions which represent the object as in action, do all the object 
of them produce the setting before the eyes: for in- — 
stance, the saying of “a good man,” that he is “a 2. 
cube!,” 15 ἃ metaphor; for both are perfect ; but this 

does not personify: whereas the speaking of one as 
“having his prime yet blooming,” is a personification. 

And this, “but you just as a thing let loose,” is a 
personification. And [in the line] “ Then the Greeks 
springing forth with their feet?;—” the expression, 
“springing,” is both a personification and a metaphor, 

for it expresses rapidity. Again, as Homer has in 


‘4 We cannot forbear adding to this long catalogue the 
metaphor used by Herodotus, in speaking of the scheme for 
the defence of Peloponnesus, at the time of the Persian inva- 
sion, by throwing a wall across the Isthmus: his words are, 
that even many cloaks of walls would be insufficient ;—ei καὶ 
“πολλοὶ τειχέων KIOQNES ἧσαν ἐληλαμένοι, x.T. ‘3 —_— 
vii. c. 139. 

* See the expression, Eth. Nich. book i. ο. 10. 

3 Bee Eurip. Iph. in Aul. 80. 


3. Meta- 
phors pro- 
duce it. 


4. And 
similes, 


5. Meta- 
phors to 
produce it 
must be 
appropri- 
ate, yet 
not ob- 
vious. 


240 ARISTOTLE’S {Boox m1. 


many places employed it, the putting inanimate 
things as animate, by means of a metaphor; and in 
all from their producing personification, they are 
approved; as in these instances?: 

** Back to the plain still roll’d the shameless stone.” 
Again, 

“The arrow flew.” And, “ Eager to wing its way.” 
And, | 

* Deep fix’d in earth, eager their blood to drain,” 
And, 
** Right through his breast th’ zmpetuous weapon sped.” 


For in all these instances, the objects, from their 
being animated, appear personified ; for the expres- 
sions, shamelessness, and eagerness, and the rest, 
are personifications. These, however, has he ap- 
pended by means of the metaphor from analogy : for 
as the stone is to Sisyphus, so is he who is insensible 
of shame, to the object in regard to which he is so 
insensible. He does this, too, in his approved similes, 
in the case of inanimate objects ; as, 

“The waves behind impel the waves before, 

Wide rolling, foaming high, and tumbling to the shore*.”’ 
for he produces every thing in life and action. But. 
personification is an imitation [of nature δ]. 

But it is fitting to draw your metaphors, as has 
been stated, from terms which are appropriate and 
not obvious; just as in philosophy, also, it is the 
privilege of one who conjectures happily, to discern 
the point of similitude®; as when Archytas observes, 
“that an arbitrator and an altar are the same,” since 


8 These passages severally stand as follows: (1.) Od. xi 
597. (2.) Il. xiii, 587. (3.) Il. iv. 126. (4.) Il. xi. 573. 
(5.) Il. xv. 542. 

* Pope’s translation, Il. xiii. (of the original), line 799. 

5 And, if an imitation, necessarily aa See this prin- 
ciple of pleasure stated, book i. c. 11, ὁ 23 

ὁ In speaking of the fable, he attributed this faculty ot 
catching such features of resemblance as, without immediately 
striking, are yet appropriate (οἵκεια μὴ φάνερα), to” those of a 
philosophic turn of mind :—7ré ὅμοιον ὁ ὁρᾷν, ὅπερ ῥᾷόν ἐστιν ἐκ 
φιλοσοφίας, Lib. ii, cap. 20, § 7. 


CHAP. ΧΙ.] RHETORIC. 241 


to both does the party who has been wronged fly 
for refuge. Or if one were to say, “that an anchor 
and a pot-hanger were the same ;” for both are some- 
what the same, but they differ in the circumstance 
of suspending from above and below. Again, the 
expression, “the states have been levelled,” is the 
same in objects widely differing, equality both in 
power and in superficies. 

Also the greatest number of elegancies arise from 
᾿ metaphor, and from additionally deceiving the hear- 
er’; for the point becomes more clear that he has 
learnt something, from the meaning being the oppo- 
site [of what it was supposed ], and the mind seems 
to say, “ How true is this! I however was wrong.” 
And the elegancies of proverbial expressions arise 
from one’s meaning not what he says; for instance, 
the words of Stesichorus, that “the grasshoppers 
shall chirp on the ground®.” Also ideas neatly put 
enigmatically, are for the same reason pleasing ; for 
there is an acquisition of knowledge, and a metaphor 
is introduced. Again, that embellishment which 
Theodorus calls, “saying out-of-the-way things ;” 
_ this, however, occurs when the sentiment is paradox- 
ical, and (as he has it) does not square with previous 
opinion’; just on the same principle as in jokes, 
words submitted to a slight change. An effect which 
those jests also produce, which depend on the change 


7 Besides the ornament of metaphor, by leading the hearer, 
throughout the sentence, to expect something very different 
from what you really mean, and undeceiving him only by the 
last word; e. g. ‘‘Quid hine abest nisi res et virtus!” 
Cic. de Orat. ii. 70. Here you expect a panegyric; the last 
word converts the whole into reproach. Of this description, 
too, are the following lines of Pope :— 


* Here thou, great Anna! whom three realms obey, 
Dost sometimes counsel take, and sometimes tea !”? 
Rape of the Lock, iil. 7. 


The precept may be further illustrated by Porson’s insidious 
commendation of Blackmore’s poetry :—‘“‘ He will be read wren 
Homer and Milton are forgotten,—but not till then.”’ 

8. Already quoted, ii. 21, § 8. 

® Probably the English word humour would best designwa 
this quaintness of Theodorus. 


R 


6. They 
deceive 
the hear- 


ers agree@- 
ably. 


Para- 
doxes. 


Jests 
which are 
παρ᾽ ὑπό 
νοιαν. 


7 Paw, 


242 ARISTOTLE’S [Book πὶ 


of a letter, for they deceive [the hearer’s anticipa- 

tion |: it happens also in metre ; for it terminates not 

in the way in which the hearer supposed; thus, 
ἔστειχε δ᾽ ἔχων ὑπὸ ποσσὶ χίμετλα!"! 

He proceeded wearing under his feet—chilblains ©. 
Whereas the hearer was imagining that “ sandals,” 
(πέδιλα), would be the word!!. This, however, as 
soon as it is uttered, ought to be clear. But these 
changes of a letter cause the speaker to say, not what 
the word expresses, but what its inversion signifies : 
as in the jest of Theodorus, on Nicon the lyrist, 
“Thee did a Thracian —” (Oparrn); for what. he 
pretends to say is, “ It annoys (Θράττει) you!?,” and 
deceives the audience; wherefore to one who has 
caught it, the joke is pleasing; since if one is not 
aware that he is a Thracian, it will not appear to 
be a beauty. Again, the expression, you wish him 
περσαι (i. 6. either ἐο side with Persia—to ruin him }, 
Both meanings, however, should be in point, and so 
also in the case of the elegancies; thus the saying, 
“ The sovereignty (ἀρχὴ) of the sea, was not the be- 
ginning (ἀρχὴ) of evils to the Athenians; since it 
was a gain to them.” Or, as Isocrates says, “ that 
its sovereignty (ἀρχὴ) was to the city a beginning 


© See note 1, at p. 88, of Carrington’s translation of Aris- 
tophanes’ Plutus ; where a similar surprise arises from the use 
of ἔπινες instead of expivns. 

11 This is sometimes aptly enough termed παρὰ προσδοκίαν, 
ba fling the expectation. 

12 Nicon, it seems, was the son of a Thracian slave; and’ 
Theodorus, conveniently mistaking the word OpérrH for 
ΘράττεΙ, takes an opportunity of taunting him with his low 
birth. Θράττω, probably contracted from ταράττω. Vid. 
Blomfield in Aéschy}. Prom. Vinct. 649. There are on record 
two excellent replies to taunts of this nature; one made by 
Mnestheus, son of Iphicrates, who declared that he esteemed 
his mother above his father,—‘‘ Nam Pater, quantum in se 
fuit, Thracem me genuit: contra ea, mater Atheniensem ;” 
(Corn. Nep. Iphic. 3;) where it should be observed, that Rut-. 
gersius, for contra ea mater, proposes to read cum Thraca ma- 
wr. The other is attributed to Timotheus, who having the 
condition of his mother as a Thracian slave thrown out rea 
him as a reproach, replied, “ But to her I owe it that I 
Conon’s son.” Atheneus, lib. xii 


CHAP. Xx.y RHETORIC. 243 


(ἀρχὴ) of evils.” For in either acceptation, that in 
stated which one did not imagine he would say; and 
that it is true, is acknowledged. For to assert that a 
beginning is a beginning, shows no great wisdom ; 
but he repeats [the word ἀρχὴ], not in this sense, 
but differently ; and he does not repeat the same 
ἀρχὴ which he first said, but in a different sense. 
And in all these cases, if one introduce the term 
appropriately under an equivocation or metaphor, 
then there is wit; for instance, there is no bearing 
Baring}: here the speaker denies the correspond- 
ence of signification, but appropriately enough, if 
{the person alluded to] be disagreeable.” Again, 
* You cannot become more a stranger [ξένος], than 
becomes you as a guest [ξένος], or not in a greater 
degree than you ought, which is the same; and “ it 
becomes not a stranger [£évoc] always to be a guest 
Γξένος 1. For the meanings here also are different. 
The same, too, is that commended saying of Anax- 
andrides, “It is honourable to die before doing aught 
worthy death;” for it is the same as saying, “It is 
worthy a man to die when he is not worthy to suffer 
death ;” or, “ It is worthy a man to die when he is 
not worthy [the punishment] of death; or, when he 
has not committed acts worthy that punishment.” 
Now the form of the diction of these sentences is the 
same; but in proportion as [the idea] happens to be 
enunciated in fewer words and with antithesis, in the 
same proportion is it more approved. And the rea- 
son is, that the information becomes by means of the 
antithesis, fuller; by means of brevity, more rapid. 
Such sentiments ought always to have either some 
one of whom they are said, or happiness of expres- 
sion (if what you say [would appear] earnest, and 
not mere idle remark); for it is possible to have one 
of those qualities without the other: for instance, 
“You ought to die without having committed an 
error ;” [the sentiment is just enough], but [the ea- 
pression] is not elegant: “ A deserving man should 


13 So, too, the Latins, Lepidus non lepidus. 
Β 2 


8. 


> 


10. There 
should be 
some per- 
son to 
whom 
they must 
apply. 


244 ARISTOTLE’S {00K Im: 


marry a deserving woman;” but this is not ele- 


gant'*; but if it possess both qualities at the same 
time, as “ It is worthy a man to die while he is not 
worthy of suffering death.” But in proportion as a 
sentence possesses the greater number of these orna- 
ments, in the same proportion does it appear more 
elegant; if, for instance, the words be metaphors, 
and metaphors of such a species, and if there be 
antithesis, and equipoise of clauses, and if it have 
personification. 

Similes also, as has been uniformly stated in the 
forégoing, are in some way approved metaphors; for 
they always are expressed in two terms, like the ana- 
logical metaphor; thus, “the shield,” we say, “is 
the cup of Mars ;” the bow, “ἃ stringless lyre.” Thus, 
then, persons express the metaphor not unaccom- 
panied ; whereas the calling a bow, “a lyre;” οἱ a 
shield “a cup,” is without accompanying explan- 


. ation '®, And on this principle men construct their 


similes ; for instance, that of a flute-player to an 
ape, and of a near-sighted person to a sputtering» 


18. lamp; for both contract themselves. But the excel- 


lence will exist when there is a metaphor; for you 
may represent by a simile the shield as “ the cup of 
Mars,” and a ruin as “the rags of a house ;” and the 
saying of Niceratus, that, ‘he was himself a Philoc- 
tetes bitten by Pratys,” as Thrasymachus drew the 
simile when he saw Niceratus, who had been beaten 
by Pratys in a contest of rhapsodists!’, with his hair 


14 As far as the expression is concerned, this instance seems 
to possess the necessary elegance; but it is deficient in the 
second requisite, viz. τὸ πρὸς ὃν λέγεται. 

15 The metaphor constructed on similar ratios (κατ᾽ ἀναλο- 
yiav) is here alluded to: see chap. 10, ὁ 7. 

16 In the Poetic, he says that, in the case of the analogical 
metaphor, ““ sometimes the proper term is also introduced, be- 
sides its relative term ;’’ and this, with a view to guard the 
metaphor from any incidrntal harshness or obscurity: with 
such an adjunct, the me’uphor ceases to be ἁπλοῦς; 6, δ. 
φιάλη “Apeos—thus expressed, the metaphor is οὐχ ἁπλοῦς ; 
but if stated simply φιάλη, it is ἁπλοῦς, See Twining, notes 
184, 189, on the Poetic. 

17 With a view to eluciaate the simile of Thrasymachus, it 


j 


/ 


cHar. xt.] RHETORIC. 245 


long and disordered, and his person still neglected. 
In which points, if they be not neatly managed, the 
poets most frequently get hissed off, even should 
they in other respects stand high. I mean when the 
poet replies [to his particle of similitude thus], 
“Like parsley he has crooked legs.”—“ Like Phi- 
lammon on the bench, struggling with the ball” [or, 
with Corycus}. And all such expressions are si- 
miles ; but that similes are metaphors has frequently 
been stated. 

Proverbs also are metaphors from species to spe- 
cies: thus if any one, as though likely to experience 
a benefit, should himself introduce a measure and 
afterwards suffer loss from it, then one exclaims, 
“As the Carpathian fetched the hare'*!” for both 
parties have experienced the thing in point. Now 
the sources whence these elegancies are deduced, and 
the cause why [they are pleasing], has nearly been 
told you. 

Again, hyperboles which are recognised are meta- 
phors; as that about a person with a black eye: 
“ You would have thought him a basket of mulber- 
ries ;” for the part beneath the eye is somewhat suf- 
fused with blood: but this is greatly forced. But 
the [simile with the expression of similitude ] just as, 
so and so, is hyperbole, differing merely in the dic- 
tion. “Like Philammon on the bench struggling 
with the ball,” [becomes hyperbole thus;] “ You 
would have thought he was Philammon struggling 
with the ball.” ‘“‘ Like parsley he has crooked legs,” 
[thus arranged becomes an hyperbole ;] “1 thought 
not that he had legs, but parsley stalks, so crooked 
were they.” But hyperboles suit with the temper- 
ament of the young, for they evince a vehemence of 


has been conjectured that the story of Philoctetes might have 
been the subject of this rhapscdical declamation. 

18 The island of Carpathus being destitute of hares, one of 
the inhabitants brought over some of these animals, which 
proved so fatally prolific as to consume all the crops in the 
island; and the Carpathians became more anxious to extirpate 
them than they had ever been for their introduction, 


14, And 
proverbs 
also. 


15. So toa 
are hyper- 
boles. 


lL. Differ- 
ent styles 
are suit- 
able to 
each sort 
oforatory. 


2. The 
written 
style is 
most pre- 
cise; that 
of dis- 
putation 
most de- 
clamato- 
ry, and is 
of two 
kinds, 
ἠθικὴ, 
παβῃτι- 
Km, 


240 ARISTOTLE’S | BooK 1» 


temper ; (on which account the angry most frequently 
utter them; [thus Achilles in his wrath exclaims, | 


Though bribes were heap’d on bribes, in number more 
Than dust in fields, or sands along the shore, 

ew . 8, * % * 
Atrides’ daughter never shall be led, 

An ill-match’d consort to Achilles’ bed ; 

Like golden Venus though she charm’d the heart, 

Or vied with Pallas in the works of art. Pore. 


The Attic rhetoricians, too, particularly employ this 
figure ;) on which account for a man in advanced life 
to utter them is bad taste. 


CHAP. XII. 


That a distinet Style is appropriate to each Species of 
Rhetorre. 


NEITHER ought it to escape us, that to each kind of 
rhetoric is adapted a peculiar style; for neither are 
the style which is adapted to writing and that of dis- 
putation the same, nor the style of deliberative and 
that of judicial rhetoric. But it is necessary to be 
acquainted with both [the first and the second}: for 
the one consists in knowing the purity of language ; 
the other in the not being obliged to sit mute, if one 
wish to communicate any thing to others; the very 
predicament in which they who know not how to 
write are placed. But the style of writing is the most 
precise: that of disputation partakes more of declam- 
ation; and of it there are two species, the one conveys 
the impress of character, the other of feeling. And 
hence actors choose this description of drama, and the 
poets this sort [of actors]. But poets fit for perusal 
are carried about with us, like Chceremon, for he is 
as nicely finished as a rhetorician; and, of the Dithy- 
rambic poets, Licymnius. 

Thus also, on comparing speeches together, these 


19 Tliad, ix. 385—388. 


CHAP. XIte]} RHETORI. 247 


adapted to writing appear jejune when delivered at 
disputations ; while those of the declaimers, excellent 
as they were when delivered, seem mere common- 
place in the closet ; and the reason is, that in disputa- 
tion [ these things] are appropriate enough. On which 
account, compositions framed for declamation, inas- 
much as, when abridged of their declamation, they do 


omission of connectives, and frequent repetitions, in 
a written style are justly exploded; yet in the style 
of disputation even the rhetoricians employ them, for 


they are adapted to declamation. Yet it is necessary 3. 


in repeating the same thing to vary the expression ; 
which indeed opens a way, as it were, to declamation : 
[e. g.] “This is he who robbed you; this is he who 
defrauded you; this is he who at last endeavoured to 
betray you.” Just as Philemon the actor used to do 
in the “ Gerontomania” of Anaxandrides, when Rha- 
damanthus and Palamedes speak ; and in the opening 
scene of the “ Devotees” [in the recurrence of | the 
word J. For if one does not give these passages with 
declamatior, it becomes [a case in point with the pro- 
verb | “ Stiff as one carrying a beam.” And so also 
where connectives are wanting, “I came, I met, I 
besought him ;” for you needs must give it with de- 
clamation, and not, as though simply saying one thing, 
enunciate it with the same manner and tone. ‘There 
is, moreover, a certain peculiarity which omissions of 
connectives possess; for it strikes one that, in an 
equal length of time, many things have been stated ; 
for the connective makes many, one; so that if it be 
taken away, it is evident that on the contrary one 
will be many. It possesses, then, amplification ; “I 
eame, I conversed with, I besought,” being many,— 
“ἢ seems to overlook all I have said, all I now say.” 
Homer is desirous of producing this effect in the 
lines : 
“ Three ships with Nireus sought the ‘Trojan shore, 


Nireus, whom Aglae to Charopus bore, 
/“éreus, in faultless shape',’’ etc. Pore. 


‘ Tliad, ii. 67 


Declama- 
tory com- 
positions 

whenread 
not produce their effect, appear ridiculous: thus, the appear t- 


a 


culous, 


5. De- 
liberative 
style like 
sketch- 
ing, and 
not accu- 
rate. 
Judicial 
style more 
precise, 


Epideic- 
tic style 
more 
suited to 
writing. 
The judi- 
cial next, 
6. Con- 
elusion of 


thesecond 


division, 
acil. λέξις, 


248 ARISTOTLE’S "Rook 71. 


For of whom a great deal is said, that man must needs 
be spoken of frequently; and therefore if one be 
spoken of frequently, it appears that a great deal has 
been said of him. So that the poet mentioning him 
only once, by help of this sophism amplifies the cha- 
racter, and has excited a recolleetion of him, though 
he no where subsequently mentions him. 

Now the deliberative style is exactly like sketch- 
ing; for in proportion as the erowd is larger, the 
view is taken from a greater distance ; on which ac- 
count, in the one as well as in the other, productions 
of an exquisite finish are superfluous, and look worse 
than others. But the judicial is a thing of greater 
nicety : and in a still higher degree where it is be- 
fore a single judge; for least of all is this within the 
reach of rhetorical artifice ; since the peculiar points 
of the case are more easily concentrated to the view, 
than what is merely external: and the heat of dis- 
putation is out of the question, so that the decision 
is fair and clear. And on this account the same 
speakers are not approved in all these kinds; but 
where there is most of declamation, there least of all 
is accuracy: this, however, is the case where power 
of voice is requisite, and particularly if a consider- 
able power. 

The demonstrative style, however, is most adapted 
to writing; for its purpose is perusal: second to it 
[in this adaptation ] is the judicial. 

But to draw any further distinctions on the sub- 
ject of style, that it ought to be pleasing and mag- 
nificent, is superfluous: for why should it be such 
rather than temperate and liberal, or if there be any 
other moral virtue? For that the foregoing rules 
will cause it to be pleasing is manifest, if indeed ex- 
cellence of style has been correctly defined :—for 
with a view to what must it be, [according to our 
definition, | “ clear and not mean, but.in good taste?” 
For should it become prosing, it is no longer clear, 
neither if it should be too concise. But it is plain 
that the mean is appropriate. And the foregoing 
precepts will cause its being pleasing, should the 


CHAP. XII.] RHETORIC, 249 


ordinary expressions have been judiciously blended 
with the foreign, and should rhythm [not be want- 
ing], and the persuasive influence resulting from 
good taste. 

The subject of style has then been treated”, as well 
generally, respecting all the species of rhetoric, as 
particularly, respecting each. But it yet remains to 
treat of arranyement. 


CHAP. XIII. 
Of the Parts of a Speech. 


Tue parts of a speech are two; for it is necessary to 
state the case about which it is, and to prove it. 
Wherefore for one, after stating, not to prove it, or 
to proceed to prove it without a previous statement, 
is out of the question: for whoever proves, proves 
something ; and he who makes a previous statement, 
makes such statement with a view to subsequently 
proving it. And of these parts, the one is the state- 
ment, the other the proof; just as though! one were 
to make a division into problem and demonstration. 
But the divisions which they now usually make are 
ridiculous ; for narration is a kind of peculiarity to 
judicial speeches alone; for how can there, in de- 
monstrative and deliberative speeches, be any narra- 
tion such as they speak of, or any reply, confutation 
of an adversary, or any peroration of points selected 
for display of character ? 

But exordium, contrast of argument, and recapi- 
tulation”, do then only occur in deliberative speeches 

2 Thus ends the second branch of the grand division of the 
work ;-πίστις--λέξις---τάξις. See the last note on book ii. 

1 That is, to adopt the language of mathematicians, the 
statement corresponds to their problem, the proof to their de- 
monstration. It will readily be observed that πίστις is here 
used ἴῃ a sense different from that which it has hitherto pre- 
served. 


2 Est et illud repetendi genus quod semel proposita iterat et 
dividit -— 


1. Two 
parts of 8 
speech, 


2. State- 
ment. 
Proof. 

8. Divi- 
sions ~ 
made by 
other 
writers 
censured, 


250 ARISTOTLE’S | BOoK Ill. 


when an altercation happens; for, considered as ac- 
cusation and defence, they frequently [admit these 
branches], but not in their character of a piece of 
Perora- advice. But the peroration, moreover, is not an es- 
mon ner sential of every judicial ; for instance, if the speech 
ys 
necessary. be a short one, or the case easy to be remembered. 
For it is usual to detract only from what is prolix. 
The necessary divisions, then, are the statement and 
the proof’. 
4, Enu- The essential divisions then are these; but de 
cpio greatest number are, exordium, statement, proof, 
ofthem, peroration. The confutation of an adversary belongs 
to the proof; and the contrast of arguments is an 
amplification of one’s own, so as to be a kind of 
branch of the proof; for one who does this proves 
something: but not so either exordium or peroration ; 
but [the latter] refreshes the recollection. 
5. Nofur- But should one draw distinctions with regard to 
— these, that will be the case which the followers of 
to be Theodorus used to do, there will be a narration dis- 
drawn. —_ tinct from post-narration, and pre-narration, together 
with refutation, and post-refutation. But the writer 
should affix a title only after marking out a distinct 
species and difference‘, otherwise it becomes mere 
emptiness and trifling; just like Licymnius, who. in 
his treatise gives the titles, irruption—digrestzon— 
ramifications, ete. 


Iphitus et Pelias mecum; quorum Iphitus eva 
Jam gravior, Pelias et vulnere tardus Ulixi. 
. Aeneid, ii 435. 
ἜΠΑΝΟΔΟΣ dicitur Greece, nostri regressionem vocant. 
Quintil. ix. 3, 36—apud Ern. Lex. Techn. 


3 It should be carefully borne in mind, that Aristotle ad- 
mits only these two branches as essential to every speech. 
His reasons for superadding exordium and peroration will be 
developed in the sequel. 

4 Without such a restraint, a rhetorician may go on ad im 
faitum drawing distincticns where no difference exists. 


CHAP. XIV>] RHETORIC. 251 


CHAP. XIV. 

Of the Exordium, 
Now the exordium is the commencement of the 1. The 
speech ; which in poetry is the prologue, and in the ΠΝ 


performances on the pipe, the prelude: for these are the pro- 
all commencements, and, as it were, an opening of logue and 
the way for what is to succeed. hae 
“i lude. 
The prelude, then, corresponds to the exordium of Prowmi- 
demonstrative speeches; for the performers on the pit . 
° ° . . pideictic 
pipe, using as a prelude any piece whatever which oratory 
they are able to execute with skill, connect the whole resembles 
by an inserted passage: and so in demonstrative bese ated 
speeches ought we to write; for the speaker ought, connected 
after stating whatever he lists}, straightway to em- with the 
ploy the insertion, and link it [to the body of the Pieee by 
speech]. Which indeed all do, having as their σιμον. 
model the exordium of the Helen of Isocrates: for #sthe 
' there exists no very near connexion between Helen paced, 
and the artifices of sophists”. At the same time, if 
the exordium be out of the way of the subject, there 
is this advantage, that the whole speech is not of one 
aniform character. But the exordia of demonstrative 2. The 
speeches are derived from praise, or from blame, be σαν 
(like Gorgias in the Olympic oration,—“ Men wor- derived 
thy, O Greeks, of admiration among many ;” for he from 
, es ae either of 
is eulogizing those who instituted the general assem- iho three 
blies: Isocrates, however, blames them, ‘“ because sorts of 
they distinguish by prizes the excellencies of person, °T#t°TY- 
while for those who are wise they propose no re- 
ward ;”) and thirdly, from suggesting advice ; for in- 3. 
stance, “‘—because it is fitting to honour the good,” 
on that account [the orator] himself also speaks the 
praises of Aristides, or such characters as neither 
enjoy reputation, nor are worthless, but as many as, 


though they be excellent persons, are obscure ; just 


1 There is, in demonstrative rhetoric, no limitation as to the 
source whence the exordium is to be derived. 
3 In a reprehension of which this exordium is employed. 


δ, The ex- 
ordium of 
judicial 
oratory 
resembles 
the pro- 
logue of a 
play. 
6. It must 
therefore 
declare 
the object 
of the 
rpeech, 


252 ARISTOTLE’S {BOOK If. 


as was Paris, the son of Priam: for thus the orator 


- conveys advice. Again [we may borrow demon- 


strative exordia| from those proper to judicial rhe- 
toric, i.e. from appeals to the auditor, in case the 
speech be: respecting any thing revolting to opinion, 
or difficult, or already noised abroad among many, so 
as to obtain his pardon: as Cheerilus begins, “ Now 
after every thing has become public.” 

The exordia, then, of demonstrative rhetoric arise 
from these sources,—from praise, blame, exhortation, 
dissuasion, and appeals to the hearers. ‘The inserted 
connective clauses may be either foreign or appro- 
priate to the subject. 

With regard to the exordia of judicial rhetoric, we 
must assume that they are equivalent to the opening 
scenes of dramas, and the exordia of epic poems; for 
the commencement of dithyrambic poetry resembles 
demonstrative exordia,—‘‘on account of thee, thy 
gifts, thy spoils.” But in the drama, and in epic 
poetry, the commencement is an intimation of the 
subject, that the hearer may foresee what the story is 
about, and that his mind may not be in suspense ; for 
whatever is indeterminate bewilders us. He then 
who puts, as it were, into the hand the beginning of 
the clue, causes him who holds it to follow on the 
story. On this account we have,— 


** Sing, muse, the wrath,” etc. 
“The man, Ὁ muse, resound,” etc. 


“This too declare; from Asia’s coasts afar, 
How upon Europe burst the mighty war.” 


And the tragedians give some insight into the plot of 
the drama, if not forthwith, as Euripides does, yet 
they give it some where at least in the opening scene ; 
just as also does Sophocles ;—‘ Polybus was my fa- 
ther?!” And comedy in the same way. ‘The most 
necessary business of the exordium, and this is pecu- 
liar to it, is to throw some light on the end for the 
sake of which the speech is made. For which very 
reason, if this be evident, and the case a brief one, 


3% Qidipus Tyr. 774. 


CHAP. XIV. ] RHETORIC. 253 


we need not employ an exordium. ‘The other species 
which speakers employ are correctives, and general: 
these are, however, deduced from 1. the speaker him- 
self; 2. his hearer; 3. the subject; 4. and from the 
adversary. Every thing whatsoever which refers to 
the doing away or the casting an aspersion of charac- 
ter, has a relation to one’s self or the adversary. But 
these things are not done exactly in the same way : for 
by one speaking on a defence, whatever tends to asper- 
sion of character should be put first; but by one who 
is laying an accusation, in his peroration. And the 
reason why is not indistinct ; for it is necessary that 
one who is making a defence, when he is about to in- 
troduce himself, should sweep away every stumbling- 
block ; so that the prepossession against you must first 
be removed: by him, however, who raises the un- 
favourable impression, let it be raised in winding up, 
in order that the judges may the rather recollect it. 
The correctives, however, which refer to the hearer, 
are drawn out of conciliating his good will, and in- 
flaming him with anger. and occasionally from attract- 
ing his attention, or the reverse; for it is not at all 
times convenient to render him attentive, for which 
reason many endeavour to induce them to laughter. 
But all these will conduce to tractability [on the judge’s 
part |, if one wishes it, as does also the showing one’s 
self a person of character; for to such do people the 
rather give heed. But men are attentive to objects 
of importance, of a peculiar description, or deserving 
admiration, or pleasing. Hence we ought to throw 
in a hint that the speech is concerning subjects of 
this nature. But if you would have them not atten- 
tive, hint that the matter is trifling, concerns them 
not, or is disgusting. But it ought not to escape our 
observation, that the whole of this is foreign to the 
subject; for they are addressed to a hearer of sorry 


4 Ιατρεύματα, a sort of antidotes to ennui and listlessness 
of the auditory, which are literally so general (κοινὰ) as not 
only to be unlimited to the exordia of either branch of rhetoric, 
but as to admit of being introduced at will into any part of the 
speech. See ᾧ 9. 


7. Other 
exordia 
are an an- 
tidote to 
weariness, 
i, latpev- 
ατΤα. 
efuta- 
tion of 
calumny 
or its op- 
posite re- 
lates to 


plaintiff 
or defend- 
ant, 


li, ἐκ τοῦ 
ἀκροατοῦ, 
excite- 
ment of 
the hear- 
er; at- 
tracting 
his atten- 
tion, or - 
the re- 
verse, 


8. All 

these 
cints 
owever 


are ex- 
traneous 
to the 
subject. 


9. 
Awaken- 
ing the 
attention 
is com- 
mon to all 
parts of 
a speech. 


10 


. 


Those 
who have 
the worst 
side em- 
ploy ex- 
ordia. 


11. 


254 ARISTOTLE’S {sooxK 1. 


taste, and one who lends an ear to points foreign to 
the subject ; for if the hearer be not of this character, 
there is no need of exordium, except so far as to state 
the matter summarily, that, like a body, it may have 
a head. 

Again, the business of exciting attention is common 
to all the divisions of a speech, wherever it may be 
necessary ; for the audience relax their attention any 
where rather than at the beginning. For which rea- 
son it is ridiculous to range this head at the begin- 
ning, when more particularly every one is at the 
summit of attention. So that, whenever it is conve- 
nient, we may use the formulary, “Lend me your 
whole attention, for the question does not affect me 
any more than yourselves ;” and this one,—‘“for I 
will relate to you a thing so strange, so wonderful, 
as you never yet heard.” But this is just what Pro- 
dicus says he used to do,—‘‘ whenever the audience 
happen to nod, to insert, by the bye, a display of his 
penteconta-drachmial demonstration®.” But that 
these things are referred to the hearer not in his pro- 
per capacity as such, is evident; for all create unfa- 
vourable impressions or do them away in their ex- 
ordia: as, “ O king, I confess indeed, that not with 
haste,” etc.®: and again, “" Why such long preludes’.” 

They, too, employ exordia who have, or appear to 
have, the worse case; for it is better to pause any 
where than on the case itself. On which account 
servants tell not what is asked them, but all the cir- 
cumstances, and make long preambles. 

But the means out of which we must conciliate 
have been stated, and each other point of that na- 
ture’: and, as it is well remarked by the poet, “ Grant 
that I may reach the Pheeacians ἃ friend and object 
of tneir compassion ;” we ought, therefore, to aim at 

5 Prodicus professed to teach a mode of reasoning with uni- 
versal success in all descriptions of cases: the premium ΟΠ 
initiation being fifty drachms, he called it Πεντηκοντάδραχμον. 
Plato in Cratyl. 

4 Sophocles, Antig. 223. 


7 Euripides, Iph. in Taur. 1162. 
® See book ii. chap. 1, § 5. 


CHAP. XIV. J LIETORIC. 255 


these two objects. And in demonstrative orations, 
you should cause the hearer to suppose that he is 
praised simultaneously with the subject, either in his 
own person or his family, or in his maxims of con- 
duct, or at least somehow or other. For true it is, 
as Socrates remarks, that “ΤῸ praise Athenians be- 
fore an Athenian audience is no difficult thing, how- 
ever it may be in the presence of Lacedzmonians %.” 
But the exordia of deliberative rhetoric are derived 
from those of judicial : but this species has them na- 
turally least of all the three ; for indeed the audience 
are aware of the subject; and the case needs no ex- 
ordium except 1. on account of the speaker himself ; 
2. or his opponent; or 3. if the audience conceive of 
the importance of the matter otherwise than he could 
wish, thinking it either too serious or too trifling: 


with a view to which objects respectively there is a ii 


necessity for either exciting or doing away a prejudice, 
or for amplification or diminution. On account of 


these things there is need of exordium; 4. or other- it 


wise for the sake of ornament; since without it a 
speech appears hastily got up. Of this sort was the 
panegyric of Gorgias on the Eleans; for without any 
thing like the preluding display of gesture and atti- 
tude in the Gymnasium, he begins forthwith,—“ O 
Elis, city blest by fortune !” 


CHAP. XV. 
Topics for removing Imputations to your Prejudice. 


Tovcuine the subject of an imputation cast upon 
you, one means of removing it will be the recurring 
to those topics, by means of which one might do away 


® This sentiment has been already quoted, book i. chap. 9, 
§ 30, in illustration of the rule Σκοπεῖν παρ᾽ οἷς ὁ ἔπαινος. The 
remark of Socrates may be found in Plato’s Menexenus, but 
differenfly expressed. 


A complis 
ment to 
be paid te 
the audi- 
ence, 


Exordia 
of de- 
liberative 
oratory 
wanted 
only in 
four cases. 
i, On ac- 
count of 
the speak- 
er. 


impress 
the hearer 
with the 
value of 
the case, 
iv. For 
the sake 
of embel- 
lishment. 


1. Topics 
to refute 
asper- 
sions, 


i. Re- 
moving 
unfuvour- 
able im- 
pressions. 


2. ii. Con- 
tradicting 
the point. 


3. iii. By 
extenua- 
tion and 
excuse. 


4. iv. By 
~ecrimi- 
pation of 
the ac- 
cuser. 

5. v. By 
compari- 
son with 
others. 
6. vi. By 
ascertain- 
ing whe- 
ther the 


256 ARISTOTLF’S ἴβοοχ mr, 


any surmises prejudicial to him; for it matters not 
whether they be entertained in consequence of the 
allegations of any one or not. So that this topic is 
universally applicable. 

Another mode is, the confronting it like a point 
under litigation, [arguing] either that it is not the 
case, or is not hurtful, or not to the particular indi- 
vidual; or that it is not of such importance, or not’ 
unjust, or not considerable, or not disgraceful, or of 
no consequence; for in points of this description the 
question originates: just as Iphicrates argued against 
Nausicrates; for he pleaded, that he did what the 
prosecutor alleged, and indeed hurt him, but yet did 
not act unjustly. Or confessedly acting unjustly he 
may offer some equivalent: e. g. though hurtful, yet 
was it honourable; though painful, yet was it bene- 
ficial ; by some other such expedient. 

Another method is, the arguing that the action is 
merely a fault, or an error!, or that it was necessary ; 
such as the plea of Socrates, ‘‘ that he trembled, not 
as the calumniator alleged, that he might appear an 
old man, but of necessity ; since his eighty years of 
age did not overtake him of his own choice.” And 
you may attempt a commutation of motives; 6. g. 
‘that he did not wish to hurt, but to do this or that, 
and not what the accuser insinuated; but that it so 
happened that hurt was sustained. But that it were 
fair enough to hate him, had he acted purposely with 
a view to this taking place.” 

Another mode is, the considering whether the 
prosecutor has either now or formerly, in his own 
person, or in that of his connexions, been involved in 
the charge. Another, whether others, whom they 
themselves acknowledge not liable to the imputation, 
be also comprehended ; for instance, if he acknow- 
ledge an adulterer to be exempt from the charge, 
surely then also is this or that person. Another 
consists in ascertaining whether he has cast any false 
jmputations on others; or whether, like the party in 


1 For the distinctions between ἀμαρτήματα and dtvynuarta, 
see book i. chap. 15, § 16. 


CHAP. XV. ] RHETORIC. 257 


the present case, any other has calumniated persons, 
or whether, without direct imputation, any ever were 
suspected who have yet appeared innocent. Another, 
in raising a counter prejudice against the calumni- 
ator; for it is absurd, if, while the man is himself 
void of credit, his words obtain it. Another, in in- 
quiring whether a decision has been already made; 
just as Euripides did in reply to Hygiznon, who, in 
an action of Antidosis, accused him as being an im- 
pious person, inasmuch as exhorting to perjury he 
wrote,—* The tongue hath sworn, but the mind is 
unsworn?;” for Euripides argued, “that by bringing 
into court the decisions of the Dionysiac contest he 
acted unjustly; for there he had given, or would 
give an account, should he wish to impeach him.” 
Another, in impeaching calumny itself, as to how 
great an evil it is; and this because it produces de- 
cisions foreign to the point, and that it relies not on 
the strength of its case. 

But the citing presumptive signs is a topic common 
to both parties: thus, in the Teucer, Ulysses insinu- 
atés that “he is of kin to Priam; for [his mother] 
Hesione was Priam’s sister.” He, however, replies 
on the ground that, “'Telamon, his father, was the 
enemy of Priam, and that he did not denounce the 
spies.” 

Another, peculiar to an accuser, is, for one after 
bestowing short praise to censure at great length 
putting forward great virtues briefly, or very many 

_which are not relevant], then to censure in one 
point which bears home upon the case. Such me- 
thods are the most crafty and malignant; for they 
attempt injury by means of one’s virtues, by blend- 
ing them with a man’s failings. 

But it is a resource common to the calumniator 
and one who meets a calumny, that, as it is possible 
for the same action to have been done from many 
motives, by the calumniator, indeed, facts should be 
taken in a bad sense, as he sakes his selection οὖν 
motives on the worse side; while by the respondent » 


3 Hippolytus, 612. 
5 


accuset 
as been 
proved a. 
calumnia- 
tor before. 
7. vii. By 
raising a 
counter 
prejudice. 
8. viii. 
the affair 
has been 
already 
decided. 


9. ix. By 
declaim- 
ing 
against 
calumny 
itself. 

x, Citing 
the pre- 
sumptive 
signs: a 
topic use- 
ful to 
both. 


10. 
xi. Prais- 


? ing alittle 


to blame 
much, 
This suits 
the ac- 
cuser. 


xii. By 
assuming 
the mo- 
tives 
which 
suit your 
086. 


™~ 


258 ARISTOTLE’S [Βοοκ 111. 


it should be made on the better. Take, for instance, 
the fact that Diomede chose Ulysses: one will say 
it was, “because he conceived Ulysses to be the 
bravest ;” the other, that “it was not, but because 
he alone could not become a rival, such a poltroon 
was he.” 

Thus much, then, on the subject of imputations. 


CHAP. XVI. 
Of the Narration. 


1. the In demonstrative speeches the narration is not given 
narration in continuity, but in scattered portions; for one must 
in epideic- 3 : Ξ 
ticoratory gO over the actions out of which the speech arises: 
isnot con- for a speech is a kind of compound, having one por- 
hot dis, tion, indeed, independent of art, [since the speaker is 
jointed. not at all the cause of the actions themselves, | and 
another portion originating in art; and this last-is 
either the showing that it is fact should it be incredi- 
ble, or such either in character or degree, or in show- 
ing all these points at once. Owing to this, there are 
times when one ought not to narrate every fact suc- 
cessively ; because this mode of exposition is difficult 
to remember. From some, then, establish the eha- 
racter for courage, from others for wisdom, and from 
others for justice. The one style of narration is too 
simple; the other has the grace of variety, and is not 
3. so void of elegance. But you have only to awaken 
the recollection of facts well known; on which ac- 
eount, many subjects will stand in no need of narra- 
tion: supposing, for instance, you would praise 
Achilles, because all are acquainted with his actions ; 
but you must employ them at once. But in praising 
Critias, an orator must narrate; for not many are 
acquainted with his exploits. 
{. Inju- | But now people tell us, ridiculously enough, that 
dicial, the the narration should be rapid. And yet I would say, 


ti : rg 
wust 88 did one to a baker, who inquired “whether he 


CHAP. XVI.} RHETORIC. 259 


should knead his bread hard or soft,’ --- “ What,” make the 
said he, “ is it then impossible to knead it properly ?” prt 
And so here [in rhetoric a mean is to be observed]. 
‘For one should not narrate at too great length, just 

as he should not make too long an exordium, nor 

state his proofs [too fully]. For neither in this case 

does propriety consist either in rapidity or concise- 

ness, but in a mean betwixt both: and this is the 

stating just so much as will make the matter clear, 

or as will cause one to conceive that it has taken 

place, or that the party has inflicted hurt, or com- 

mitted injustice, or that the case is of that importance 

which the speaker wishes to establish; and to the 
opposite party the opposite points will avail. And ὅ. and 
an orator should narrate, by the bye, such incidents hex Thaw 
as conduce to his own excellence: thus, “I all along in favour 
used to instruct them in what was just, bidding them οὗ the 
not to abandon their children,”—or, to the villany te 
of the other party ;— ‘‘—but he replied to me, that 
wherever he might be he should have other children.” 

Which, Herodotus says, was the reply of the Egyp- 

tians on their revolting'. Or whatever is pleasing 

to the judges. 

In the case of a defendant, the matter will be more 6. The 
brief; the points for dispute being, either that it has poop 
not taken place, or is not hurtful, or not unjust, or ration is 
not of such importance. So that on acknowledged "ef; 
points he need not pause, unless they conduce in 
some degree to the objects suggested; e. g. if the 
fact be acknowledged, but its injustice disputed. 
Moreover, you should mention as already done those 
things which, in the course of being done, failed of 
producing pity or horror. The story of Alcinous 
is an instance, which is despatched to Penelope in 
sixty verses. And as Phayllus does in the circle, 
and the opening scene of the Gineus. The narra- 8. and 
tion should also convey a notion of the character: C0"""9* 
this will be secured, if we know what gives rise to press of 
the moral character. One source is the manifesta- character 
tion of deliberate choice ; and of what kind is moral eet ΗΝ 

1 See Herodotus, ti. 30. 
8 2 


“.Ϊ 
.Φ 


ing moral 
purpose. 


9. 
ii. By nar- 
ration of 
the con- 
comitant 
circum- 
stances, 
iii. By 
speaking 
with feel- 


"Ἔ 


26) ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK 1. 


character we ascertain from knowing of what kind 
this is; and of what kind the deliberate choice is, 
from being acquainted with its proposed end. Hence 
the doctrines of mathematics have no display of cha- 
racter, for neither have they deliberate choice; and 
this for that they have not the influence of motive?: 
but the Socratic discourses [have this display], for 
they treat concerning subjects of this kind. But 
those things convey a notion of character, which is 
consequent upon the several characters’; 6. g. 
“ Whilst saying this he began to hasten off;” for 
this manifests a hardihood and rusticity of character. 
And be cautious not to speak coldly as from the un- 
derstanding merely, as orators do now-a-days, but 
as though from the deliberate choice’. “I, for 1 
wished and deliberately preferred this ; and if I pro- 
fit nothing by it, then it is the more honourable :” 
for the one is characteristic of a prudent®, the other 
of a good man: since [the proposed end] of the pru- 
dent consists in pursuing the expedient; of a good 
man, in pursuing what is honourable. And should 
any circumstance be incredible, you must subjoin the 
reason; as Sophocles does. He furnishes an exam- 
ple in the Antigone, that she mourned more for her 
brother than for a husband or children; for these, if 
lost, might again be hers. 


** But father now and mother both bemg lost, 
A brother’s name can ne’er be hail’d again®.” 


2 See the next chapter, § 8. 

3 Using, in fact, the σημεῖον of the action as an evidence of 
the thought, or taking the result of the feeling for the feeling 
itself; as Pericles does when alluding to the morose looks of 
the Lacedemonians, a process which, though ingenious, yet 
often leads to a fallacy. 

4 Which is wild regulated by the wnderstanding. See Nich. 
Eth. book iii. chap. 2, 3, etc. 

5 That is, the prudent speak from the dictates of the under- 
standing solely, the good on the impulse of deliberate choice. 

6 Sophocles, Antigone, 911. See the speech of the wife of 
Intaphernes to Darius, on asking the life of a brother in pre- 
ference to those of her husband or children :—Q βασιλεῦ, avng 
μέν μοι ἂν ἄλλος γένοιτο, εἰ δαίμων ἐθέλοι, καὶ τέκνα ἄλλα, εἰ 
ταῦτα ἀποβάλοιμι᾽ πατρὸς δὲ καὶ μητρὸς οὐκ ἔτι μεῦ ζωόντων, 


ἀδελφεὸς ἂν ὦλλος οὐδενὶ τρόπῳ yévorro. Herodotus, Thalia, 


eHAP. XVI." RHETORIC. 261 


But if you should have no reason to offer, then avow 
“that you are well aware that you speak what ex- 
ceeds belief, but that such is your nature:” for the 
world discredit a man’s doing any thing voluntarily, 
except what is expedient. 

Again, draw your remarks out of those things 
which are indicative of the passions ; narrating both 
their attendant circumstances, and those which the 
audience know, and which attach peculiarly either to 
the speaker himself or his adversary :—“ He, having 
scowled at me, departed.” And as Aéschines said 
of Cratylus, “that whistling and snapping his fin- 
gers—:” for they have a tendency to persuade: 
therefore these things which they know, become 
indices of that which they do not know. Such in- 
stances one may get in abundance out of Homer :— 
“Thus Penelope spoke, and the old woman covered 
her face with her hands’:” for those who are begin- 
ning to shed tears cover their eyes. And forthwith 
insinuate yourself as a person of a certain character, 
in order that they may look upon you as one of 
such a description, and your adversary [as the re- 
verse]: but beware of observation as you do it. And 
that it is easy to effect this we may observe in those 
who report any thing to us; for respecting the com- 
munication (of which as yet we know nothing), we 


cap. 119. See the reply of Robert Duke of Normandy to 
William Rufus, justifying himself for allowing him to get water 
during the siege at Mont St. Michael :—‘‘ How am I to blame? 
should I have suffered our brother to die of thirst, what other 
have we if we had lost him?” Lord Lyttleton, vol. i. p. 111. 
Compare the words of Edward I. on hearing at the same time 
of the death of his father and infant son, ‘‘ that the death cfa 
son was a loss which he might hope to repair; the death of a 
yather was a loss irreparable.”” Hume. And the lines qucted 
in “‘ the Antiquary,” vol. iii. chap. 11 :— 


He turned him right and round again, 
Said, Scorn na at my mither; 

Light loves I may get mony a ane, 
But minnie ne’er anither. 


¥ Odyssey, book xix 361. 


10. Let 
the nar- 
ration be 
παθητι- 
KM, 


and ἠθική 


11. Nar- 
ration 
least used 
in de- 
liberative 
oratory. 


262 ARISTOTLE’S [300K 111. 


still catch a kind of guess®. But the narration must 
be carried on in different parts, and, in some in- 
stances, even at the commencement. 

But in deliberative speeches narration occurs least 
of all, because no one narrates respecting what is yet 
to be: if, however, there should be any narration, it 
will be respecting things which have already happen- 
ed, that the recollection of them having been awak- 
ened, the judges may determine better on the future ; 
the orator either reprehending or praising them: but 
he is not then performing the functions proper to him 
as an adviser. If, however, the thing narrated be 
incredible, see you promise*to state a reason for it 
immediately *, and to submit it to whom they please : 
like the Jocasta of Carcinus in his Gédipus, who al- 
ways keeps promising when he who was seeking out 
her son inquires of her: and the Hzemon of So- 
phocles 10, 


CHAP. XVII. 
Of the Proof. 


1, Proof Proor should be demonstrative; and the points of 


in judicial 


oratory : 
four 
points. 
1. The 
fact, 

ii, The 
mischief. 
iii. The 
degree. 


dispute being four, you must demonstrate by pro- 
ducing proof respecting the particular point at issue : 
thus, if the adversary question the fact, you must at 
the trial produce proof of this point above the rest ; 
should it be that he did xo harm, then of that point ; 
and so should he urge that the action is not of the 
importance supposed, or that it was done justly: [and 
it must be done in the latter cases] exactly in the 
same way as if the inquiry were respecting the mat- 

8 See the Trachinie of Sophocles, verse 869, where part of 
the Chorus conjecture, from the dejected looks of the nurse as 
she approaches, that some calamity is about to be announced. 

® An instance of this occurs in the statement of finance 
which Pericles laid before the Athenians, to substantiate the 


hopes which he had held out to them. Thucyd. ii. 13. 
10 See the Antigone, 635, etc. 


CHAP. XVII.] RHETORIC. 208 


ter of fact. And let it not escape us that in this sin- 
gle inquiry, it must needs be that one party is guilty': 
for it is not ignorance which is to blame, as though 
any were to dispute on a point of justice. So that, 
in this inquiry, the circumstance should be employed ; 
but not in the other [three]. 

But, in demonstrative rhetoric, amplification, for 
the most part, will constitute the proof, because the 
facts are honourable and useful; for the actions 
should be taken on credit?, since, even on these sub- 
jects, a speaker on very rare occasions does adduce 
proof, if either the action be passing belief, or if an- 
other have the credit of 108. 

But, in deliberative speeches, the orator may either 
contend that the circumstances will not take place, or 
that what he directs will indeed take place, but that 
it is not just, or not beneficial, or not in such a degree. 
And it will be well for him to observe whether any 
falsehood appears in the extraneous observations of 
his adversary ; for these appear as so many con- 
vincing proofs, that he is false in the case of the other 
more important statements. 

And example is best adapted to deliberative rhe- 
toric ; while enthymem is more peculiar to judicial‘. 
For the former is relative to the future; so that out 
of what has been heretofore, we needs must adduce 
examples: the latter respects what is or is not mat- 
ter of fact, to which belong more especially demon- 
stration and necessity; for the circumstances of the 
past involve a necessity. The speaker ought not, 
however, to bring forward his enthymems in a con- 
tinued series, but to blend them by the way ; should 
he not do this, they prove an injury one to the other, 

‘ He states the same doctrine in the Nich. Eth. v. 2:— 
οὐ yao ὥσπερ ἐν τοὶς συναλλάγμασι περὲ τοῦ γιγνέσθαι ἀμφισ- 
βητοῦσιν ὧν ἀνάγκη τὸν ἕτερον εἶναι μοχθηρὸν ἂν μὴ διὰ λήθην 
αὐτὸ δρῶσιν, kK. τ.λ. 

2 “For the facts are taken for granted; so that it only re- 
mains to invest them with grandeur.”” Book i. chap. 9, ὁ 40. 

3. Victorius notices the use of the phrase αἰτίαν ἔχειν in a 
good sense. 


* He asserts this, and assigns the reason, at the end of his 
consideration of demonstrative rhetoric book i. c. 9 & 40. 


2. iv. The 
moral 
character 
of the 
action. 

3. 


In epi- 
deicticthe 
proof is 
made by 
amplifica 
tion. 


4, In de- 
liberative 
we must 
observe 
the falla- 
cies of the 
adversa- 
ry, for 
these are 
a part of 
our proof. 


5. Exam- 
ple best 
suited to 
it. : 


6. How 
enthy- | 
mems are 
to be used 
Notina 
series, 


7. Nor on 
all sub- 
jects. 


8. Nor to 
excite any 
emotions 
or pas- 
gions. 


3. But 
maxims 
may be 
used in 
the proof 
and nar- 
ration, 


10. Rea- 
sons why 
delibera- 
tive is 
more dif- 
ficult than 
judicial 
oratory. 

i. It is on 
the fu- 
ture. 

ii, Judi- 


264 ARISTOTLE’S [BOOK {|| 


for there is some limit on the score of quautity too :— 
“ Oh friend, since you have spoken just so much as a 
prudent man would®;” but the poet does not say, of 
such a quality. Neither should you seek after en- 
thymems on every subject ; otherwise you will be 
doing the very thing which some philosophers do. 
who infer syllogistically conclusions in themselves 
better known, and more readily commanding belief, 
than the premises out of which they deduce them. 
And when you would excite any passion, do not em- 
ploy an enthymem; for either it will expel the pas- 
sion, or the enthymem will be uttered to no purpose ; 
for the emotions which happen at the same time expel 
each other, and either cancel or render one or the 
other feeble. Neither when one aims at speaking 
with the effect of character, ought he at all to aim 
at the same time at enthymem; for demonstration 
possesses neither an air of character, nor deliberate 
choice. But a speaker should employ maxims alike 
in narration and in proof; for it has an expression 
of character :—‘ Yes ; I delivered it, even knowing 
that one ought never to repose implicit confidence.” 
And if one speak with a view to excite passion :— 
“ And injured though I be, yet I do not repent ; 
for the gain, indeed, is on his side, but justice on 
mine.” 

And deliberative is more difficult than judicial 
rhetoric, and probably enough,—because it respects 
the future; whereas, in the latter, the question is 
respecting the past, which has already become matter 
of absolute science, even to diviners, as Epimenides 
the Cretan used to say; for he did not exercise his 
art of divination respecting things yet to be, but 
respecting those which had already happened indeed, 
but which were obscure: again, in judicial questions, 

5 The words of Menelaus to Pisistratus, the son of Nestor. 
Odyssey, lib. iv. 204. The force of the illustration here seems 
to be this: the poet, no less than the philosopher, thought it 
no small praise to know when to stop; so that, without allusion 
to the prudence of what had been said, (to the category of 


quality, rovabra,) he commends him merely on the score of ita 
due quantity. 


CHAP. XVII.] RHETORIC. 265 


thee is the law as the basis of reasonings; but for 
one who has something wherewith to begin, it is 
easier to discover means of proof. Neither has [de- 
liberative rhetoric | many opportunities of digression ; 
none, for instance, in reference to an adversary, or 
respecting one’s self, or in order to excite passion ®; 
but it possesses these opportunities least of all the 
three branches, unless it depart from its proper pro- 
vince. If, then, you are at a loss, you should do 
what the rhetoricians at Athens do, and particularly 
Isocrates ; for in the course of deliberative speaking 
he accuses the Lacedzemonians, for instance, in the 
panegyric, and Chares in the speech about the alli- 
ance. But in demonstrative speaking, you should 
insert praise in the speech by way of episode, as Iso- 
erates does, for he all along keeps introducing some- 
_thing. And that saying of Gorgias, ‘That he never 
failed of something to say,” is nothing more nor less 
than this: for if he be speaking of Achilles, he 
praises Peleus, then A®acus, then his goddess mother, 
and so, too, valour in the abstract; or he does some- 
thing or another in this strain. _ 

Now the language of one who possesses proof, 
should be both fraught with the impress of charac- 
ter, and fitted to convey the proof. But if you pos- 
sess not enthymems, let it convey an impression of 
your character ; and the show of goodness more befits 
ἃ virtuous man, than accuracy of speech. 

But of enthymems the refutative are more ap- 
proved than the confirmative’: because in the case 
of as many as produce reductio ad absurdum, it is 
more plain that a conclusion has really been arrived 
at; for opposites, when set by each other, are more 
clearly recognised. 


§ Now, according to the early part of this work, all this is 
done easily enough in judicial cases, since there the judge has 
no personal interest, and easily resigns himself to the speaker ; 
but in deliberative rhetoric, every one addressed is supposed, 
more or less, to have an interest in the question at issue, and 
is therefore more jealous of the speaker’s artifice. Booki.c. 


1, § 10. 
"? See book ii. chap. 23, § 30. 


cial ora- 
tory has 
law for 4 
basis. 

iii. The 
delibera- 
tive ora- 
tor cannot 
digress so 
easily. 


12. If you 
have en- 
thymems 
speak ἢ 
ἠθικῶς 
and ἀπο- 
δεικτι- 
κως. 

If not, on- 
ly ἠθικῶς; 
13. Refu- 
tative en 
thymems 
better 
than con- 
firmative. 


14. Mode 
of reply- 
ing to our 
adver- 
sary. 
The first 
speaker 
must give 
his proofs 
and an- 
ticipate 
objec- 
tions, 


15. The 
lastspeak- 
er must 
refute the 
adver- 
sary’s ar- 
guments, 
and draw 
opposite 
infer- 
ences. 
The rea- 
son why. 


16. Cha 
ractor of 


266 ARISTOTLE’S [BooK 1. 


Touching reasonings directed against the adver- 
sary, they are not in any thing different in species ; 
but it belongs to the province of proof to do away 
his arguments, some by starting an objection, others 
by contrary inference®. And the speaker who be- 
gins, ought, both in deliberative and judicial rhetoric, . 
first to state his own proofs ; and subsequently to meet 
objections by doing them away, or by treating them 
with contempt beforehand. But should the points 
objected to be many, first he must confront the objec- 
tions, as did Callistratus in the Messeniac assembly ; 
for previously having swept away what his adver- 
saries would be likely to allege in this way, he then 
spoke on his own part. But the last speaker should 
speak first what makes against the adversary’s speech, 
doing it away, and drawing opposite inferences ; and 
particularly should his arguments have been well 
received. For just as one’s mind does not cordially 
receive a person on whom a slur has been previously 
cast ; in the same way neither does it favourably listen 
to a speech, if the opposite speaker appear to have 
spoken truly. It is necessary, then, to gain a footing 
in the hearer’s mind for the intended speech; and it 
will be gained if you sweep away objections: where- 
fore a speaker, having combated either all, or the 
most important, or the most approved arguments of 
his adversary, or those which readily admit a con- 
trary inference, is in this way to substantiate his 
own case :— 

** The fame οὗ th’ Goddesses I ’Il first defend,— 
* * * * * * * 
For Juno and 2 
In this she first lays hold of the most silly point.— 
Thus much, then, of proof. 
But as to the effect of character, since the saying 


* Compare book ii. chap. 25, § 1, 2. 

* See the Troades of Euripides, 969, where Hecuba, reply- 
ing to the defence made by Helen, lays hold of that part of it 
which seemed to insinuate that the three goddesses had been 
instrumental to her abandonment of her husband ;—a point 
which, it wil. readily be perceived, was E’Y’EAETKTON, 


CHAP. XVII.] RHETORIC. 267 


some things respecting one’s self, either is invidious, thespeak- 

or involves prolixity, or a liability to contradiction ; οὐ best ΠΟ 
; ; a vey 

and respecting another, either slander or rusticity ;— py intro- 

it behoves one to introduce another as speaking: the ducing ἃ 

thing which Isocrates does in the speech respecting ‘r4 per- 

Philip, and in the Antidosis; and as Archilochus 

conveys reproof, for he introduces the father saying, 

in an iambic line respecting his daughter, “ There is 

not any thing which may not be expected, nothing 

which may be affirmed impossible on oath ;” and 

Charon, the mechanic, in that iambic whose begin- 

ning is, “I regard not the wealth of Gyges;” and 

as Sophocles introduces Hzemon pleading in behalf of 

Antigone to his father, as though another character 

were speaking. 

But it is necessary sometimes to alter the form of 17. En- 
our enthymems, and to make them into maxims!9: τῶν 
for example, “It behoves men of sense to come to sionally ta 
reconciliation while yet successful; for thus will be altered 
they be the greatest gainers.” But, in enthymematic rep στον 
form, it is thus: “ If persons ought then to be recon- 
ciled when the reconciliation will be most to their 
advantage and profit, they should be reconciled while 
yet they are successful.” 


CHAP. XVIII. 
Of Interrogation and Ridicule. 


Bor respecting interrogation, it is the happiest time 1. Inter 
for employing it when an admission has been made Tog@tion 
in such a way, that a single further question being be em- 
put, an absurdity occurs: thus Pericles asked Lam- ge te 
pon respecting the initiation to the rites of [Ceres] ἐπ ah. 
the protectress ; and on his saying, “That it was not surdity 
possible for him, an uninitiated person, to hear it,” will re- 
-—he asked “Whether he knew himself?” when ™* 


See book ii. chap. 21, § 2. 


2. 
ii, When 


your con- - 


elusion 
will be 
establish- 
ed by it. 


3. 
iii. When 
the oppo- 
nent must 
contradict 
himself. 


iv. When 
we reduce 
our oppo- 
nent to 
sophisti- 
cal an- 
swers. 
Caution 
as to in- 
terroga- 
tions. 


5. How 
to answer 
an equivo- 
cal ques- 
tion. 

i. By dis- 
tinction, 
ii. By an- 
ticipation. 


268 ARISTOTLF’S — [Book ft. 


he said he did, [Pericles subjoined, ] “ And how do 
you know who are uninitiated ?” 

Next to this is the crisis, when [of two points] 
one is clear, and it is manifest to the party putting 
the question, that his adversary will concede the 
other; for one ought, after having ascertained by 
inquiry the one proposition, not to interrogate fur- 
ther respecting the point which is clear, but state 
the conclusion. Just as Socrates, when Meletus 
denied that he believed in the gods, asked ‘‘ Whether 
he asserted the being of any demon?” When heal- 
lowed that he had, Socrates asked, ‘‘ Whether these 
demons were not either sons of the gods, or some- 
thing of divine nature?” And when he allowed it, 
“Ts there, then,” said he, “one who thinks that sons 
of the gods exist, and not the gods themselves ?”’ 

Again, when one is likely to exhibit the adversary 
as speaking contradictions, or somewhat revolting to 
general opinion. 

Fourthly, when he may not be able to rid himself 


4. of the question otherwise than by a sophistical an- 


swer: for if he answer in this way, sat zt is, and is 
not, or partly is, and partly is not,—or, one way it 
is, another way is not; the hearers hoot him off, be- 
ing at a loss for his meaning. 

Under any other circumstances do not attempt in- 
terrogation ; for should the party interrogated start 
an objection to the question, you appear. to have 
been overcome: since it is not possible to put many 
questions by reason of the imbecility of the hearer, 
On which account we ought, as much as possible, to 
compress even our enthymems. 

But one must give his answers to equivocal ques- 
tions with a distinction!, and not concisely ; and to 
what seems a contradiction, by directly offering an 
explanation in the reply, before the interrogator can 
put the next succeeding question, or draw the in- 
ference he aims at; for it is no difficult thing to 

1 See the answer of our Saviour to the captious question of 


the Pharisees,—‘‘ What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give 
tribute unto Cesar, or not?"* Matt. xxii. 17—22. 


PHAP, XVIII. J RHETORIC. 269 


foresee on what the speech turns. Be this, however, 

and the means of answering, clear to us from the 

Topics. And as to a party drawing his conclusion, 6. iii. By 

if his question produce that conclusion, you are to ¢xPlane- 

assign the cause: as Sophocles, when questioned by 

Pisander, “ Whether it had been his opinion, as it 

had of the other commissioners, to establish the four 

hundred,” acknowledged that it had.— But how,” 

rejoined the other, “seemed it not to you to be 

wrong?” He said it did. “ Did you not, then, do 

that which was wrong?” “Yes, forsooth,” replied 

he, “for I had no better alternative.” And as the 

Lacedemonian, when called to an account respecting 

his ephorship, on having the question put, “ Whether 

the rest appeared to him to have perished justly,” 

_ said they did. “ Then,” retorted the other, “ did you 

not enact the same things as they?” And when he 

acknowledged that he had, “ Would not you also,” 

asked the other, “justly perish’’”’ ‘No, indeed,” 

said he, “for they did this on a bribe; I did not, but 

merely from judgment.” Wherefore one ought not No ques- 

after the conclusion to put a further question, nor to (ἴθι to be 

Ξ ᾿ ᾿ ? put after 

put, interrogatively, the conclusion itself, unless the the con- 

truth lies abundantly on our side. clusion. 
But with respect to Ridicule, inasmuch as it seems 7. Ridi- 

to possess a kind of use in disputation”, and as “one rie dea 

ought,” says Gorgias, “to mar the grave earnestness 

of our adversary by ridicule, and his ridicule by sober 

earnestness,” making the remark justly enough,—it 

has been stated in the Poetic? how many species of 

ridicule there are; whereof, some befit the gentle- 

man, others do not: so that each must see to it that 

he take that which befits himself. But the playing 

a man off is more gentlemanly than buffoonery; for 

the former produces the ridicule for his own sake, 

the buffoon for that of another. 


$ * Ridiculum acri 
Fortius et melius plerumque secat res.”” Hor, Sat. i. 10, 14. 


* See book i. chap. 11, § 29. 


must in- 
cline the 
hearers 
favour- 
ably. 


2. ii, We 
lity me 
plify an 

diminish. 


3. iii, We 
maust ex- 
cite the 
hearers. 


4. iv. We 
must 
awaken 
the me- 
mory. 


270 ARISTOTLE’S TBcoK ΗἹ, 


CHAP, XIX. 


Of the Peroration. 


THE peroration is composed of four things :—of get- 
ting the hearer favourable to one’s self, and ill-dis- 
posed towards the adversary; and of amplification 
and extenuation ; and of placing the hearer under the 


᾿ influence of the passions; and of awakening his re- 
iii, collection. 


For after showing yourself to be on the right side, 
and your adversary on the wrong, it naturally follows 
to praise and blame, and to give the last finish. And 
one of two things the speaker ought to aim at, either 
to show that he is good relatively to them, [the audi- 
ence, | or is so absolutely; and that the other party 
is bad, either relatively to them, or absolutely. And 
the elements, out of which one ought to get up per- 
sons as of such characters, have been stated; both 
whence one should establish them as bad, and whence 
as good. Next to this, these points having been 
already shown, it follows naturally to amplify or 
diminish: for the facts must needs be acknowledged, 
if one be about to state their quantity ; for the in- 
crease of bodies is from substances previously exist- 
ing. But the elements, out of which one must 
amplify and diminish, are above set forth. 

Next to this, the facts being clear both as to their 
nature and degree, it follows that we excite the 
hearer to passion; such as are, pity, terror, anger, 
hatred, envy, emulation, and contentiousness: the 
elements of these also have been stated above. 

So that it merely remains to awaken a recollection 
of what has been before stated. And this we are to 
do here, in the way in which some erroneous teach- 
ers say we should in the exordium: for in order that 
the facts may be readily perceived, they bid us state 
them frequently. Now there [in the exordium] in- 
deed we ought to state the case at full, in order that 
it may not be unknown to the hearer upon what the 


CHAP, XIx.] RHETORIC. 271 


trial turns; here, however, [in the peroration,] 
merely the means by which it has been proved, and 
that summarily. 

The commencement of the peroration will be, that 5. The 
one has made good what he undertook ; so that it will FOO 
be to be stated, as well what one has adduced, as for assertthat 
what reasons. And it is expressed either by means the ora- 
of a juxtaposition with the adversary’s statements; jyoved 
and draw the comparison either between every point his point 
whatsoever, which both have stated relative to the He must 

ὃ . ΣῊΝ ‘i compare 
same thing; or else not by adirect opposition. “He, his argu- 
indeed, on this subject said so and so; but I so and ments 
so, and for such reasons.” Or, by a kind of banter- δάτηλαλῖνς 
Ἵ ς . 3, OL his op- 
ing: thus, “He said so and so, and I so and so.” ponent, 
And, ‘‘ What would he do, had he proved this, and heen 
not the other point!” Or by interrogation :—“What (ya? 
τ 5 ἐς ἄρα 
has not been fully proved on my side?” or, “ What terroga- 
has this man established?”  Lither in this way, to. 
then, must the speaker conclude, or he must, in 
natural order, so state his reasoning as it was origin- 
ally stated ; and, again, if he pleases, he may state 
distinctly that of the adversary’s speech. And, for 6. The 
the close, the style without connectives is becoming, oe ae 
in order that it may be a peroration, not an oration!: suitable 
I have spoken,—you have heard,—the case is in tothe pere 


your hands,—pronounce your decision 3, saint 


1 See the conclusion of Lysias’ oration against Eratosthenes. 

? It cannot fail of being observed how neatly Aristotle em- 
ploys this his concluding chapter, as at once an Lluastration of 
the subject and a farewell to the reader. 


A BRIEF 


ΟΡ THE 


ART OF RHETORICK;} 


CONTAINING IN SUBSTANCE ALL THAT ARISTOTLE HATH WRITTEN 
IN HIS THREE BOOKS ON THAT SUBJECT. 


BY 


THOMAS HOBBES, 


OF MALMSBURY. 


REPRINTED FROM THE EDITION PRINTED AT LONDON IN 1682, 


‘A 


A BRIEF 


OF THE 


ART OF RHETORICK. 


BY 


THOMAS HOBBES. 


BOOK I.—CHAP. I. 


That Rhetorick is an Art consisting not only in moving 
the Passions of the Judge ; but chiefly in Proofs. 
And that this Art 1s Profitable. 


WE see that all men naturally are able in some sort to accuse 
and excuse: some by chance; but some by method. This 
method may be discovered : and to discover Method is all one 
with teaching an Art. If this Art consisted in Criminations 
only, and the skill to stir up the Judges, Anger, Envy, Fear, 
Pity, or other affections; a Rhetorician in well ordered Com- 
monwealths and States, where it is forbidden to digress from 
the cause in hearing, could have nothing at all to say. For 
all these perversions of the Judge are beside the question. 
And that which the pleader is to shew, and the Judge to give 
sentence on, is this only: ’Z%s so: or not so. The rest hath 
been decided already by the Law-maker ; who judging of uni- 
versals, and future things, could not be corrupted. Besides, 
tis an absurd thing, for a man to make crooked the Ruler he 
means to use. 

It consisteth therefore chiefly in Proofs; which are Infer 
ences: and all Inferences being Syllogismes, a Logician, if he 

τ ἃ 


276 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [BOOK ! 


would observe the difference between a plain Syllogisme, and 
an Enthymeme, (which is a Rhetoricall Syllogisme,) would 
make the best Ahetorician. For all Syllogismes and Inferences 
belong properly to Logick; whether they infer truth or pro- 
bability : and because without this Art it would often come to 
pass, that evil men by the advantage of natural abilities, would 
arry an evil cause against a good; it brings with it at least 
this profit, that making the pleaders even in skill, it leaves 
the odds only in the merit of the cause. Besides, ordinarily 
those that are Judges, are neither patient, nor capable of long 
Scientifical proofs, drawn from the principles through many 
Syllogismes ; and therefore had need to be instructed by the 
Rhetoricall, and shorter way. Lastly, it were ridiculous, to 
be ashamed of being vanquished in exercises of the body, and 
not to be ashamed of being inferior in the vertue of well ex- 
pressing the mind. 


CHAP. II. 
The Definition of Rhetorick. 


RHETORICK, is that Faculty, by which we understand what 
will serve our turn, concerning any Subject to win belief in 
the hearer. . 

Of those things that beget belief ; some require not the help 
of Art; as Witnesses, Evidences, and the like, which we in- 
vent not, but make use of; and some require Art, and are in- 
vented by us. 

The belief that proceeds from our Invention, comes partly 
from the behaviour of the speaker; partly from the passions 
of the hearer; but especially from the proofs of what we 
alledge. 

Proofs are, in Rhetorich, either Examples, or Enthymemes, 
as in Logick, Inductions, or Sylloqismes. For an Example — 
is a short Induction, and an Enthymeme a short Syllogisme ; 
out of which are left as superfluous, that which is supposed 
to be necessarily understood by the hearer; to avoid pro- 
lixity, and not to consume the time of publick business need- 
lessly '. 

1 And it might be added, in order to gratify the pride of the auditor 
by leaving it to him to supply the deficiency. 


cma?. tir.” ART OF RHETORICK, 277 


CHAP. ΠῚ. 
Of the several kinds of Orations + and of the Principles of Rhetorick. 


Iw all Orations, the Hearer does either hear only ; or judge also, 

If he hear only, that’s one kind of Gration, and is called De- 
monstrative, 

If he judge, he must judge either of that which is to come; 
or of that which is past. 

If of that which is to come, there’s another kind of Oration, 
and is called Deliberative. 

If of that which is past ; then ’tis a third kind of Oration, 
called Judicial. 

So there are three kinds of Orations ; Demonstrative, Ju- 
dicial, Deliberative. 

To which belong their proper times. Τὸ the Demonstra- 
~ tive, the Present; To the Judicial, the Past; and to the De- 

liberative, the time to come. 

And their proper Offices. To the Deliberative, Exhorta- 
fion and Dekortation. To the Judicial, Accusation and De- 
fence. And to the Demonstrative, Praising and Dispraising. - 

And their proper ends. To the Deliberative, to Prove a 
thing Profitable, or Unprofitable. To the Judicial, Just, or Un- 
just. To the Demonstrative, Honourable, or Dishonourable. 

_ The Principles of Rhetorick out of which Enthymemes are 
.to be drawn; are the common Opinions that men have con- 
cerning Profitable, and Unprofitable; Just, and Unjust; 
Honourable, and Dishonourable ; which are the points in the 
several kinds of Orations questionable. For as in Logick, where 
certain and infallible knowledge is the scope of our proof, the 
Principles must be all infallible Truths: so in Rhetorick the 
Principles must be common Opinions, such as the Judge is 

. already possessed with: because the end of Rhetorick is vic- 
tory ; which consists in having gotten Belief. 

And because nothing is Profitable, Unprofitable, Just, Un- 
just, Honourable, or Dishonourable, but what has been done, 
or is to be done; and nothing is to be done, that is not possible: 
and because there be degrees of Profitable, Unprojitable, Just, 
Unjust, Honourable, and Dishonourable; an Orator must be 
ready in other Principles; namely, of what is done and not 


278 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book 1. 


done; possible and not possible ; to come and not to come ; and. 
what is Greater, and what is Lesser ; both in general, and 
particularly applyed to the thing in question ; as what is more 
and less, generally ; and what is more profitable, and less pro- 
fitable, ete. particularly. 


CHAP. IV. 


Of the Subject of Deliberatives ; and the Abilities that are required 
of him that will deliberate of Business of State. 


In Deliberatives there are to be considered the Subject, where- 
in, and the Ends whereto the Orator exhorteth, or from which 
he dehorteth. 

The Subject is always something in our own power, the 
knowledge whereof belongs not to Rhetorick, but for the most 
part to the Politicks; and may be referred in a manner to 
these five heads. 

1. Of levying of Money. 'To which point he that will speak 
as he ought to do, ought to know before-hand, the revenue of 
the State, how much it is, and wherein it consisteth ; and alsc 
how great are the necessary charges and expences of the same 
This knowledge is gotten partly by a man’s own experience, 
partly by relations, and accounts in writing. 

2. Of Peace and War. Concerning which the Counsellor 
or Deliberator, ought to know the strength of the Common- 
wealth ; how much it both now is, and hereafter may be: and 
wherein that power consisteth. Which knowledge is gotten, 
partly by experience, and relations at home; and partly by the 
sight of wars, and of their events abroad. 

3. Of the Safeguard of the Country. Wherein he only is 
able to give counsell, that knows the forms, and number, and 
places of the Garrisons. 

4. Of Provision. Wherein to speak well, it is necessary 
for a man to know what is sufficient to maintain the State; - 
what Commodities they have at home growing; what they 
must fetch in through need; and what they may carry out 
through abundance. 

5. Of making Laws. 'To which is necessary so much Po- 
litical, or Civil Philosophy, as to know what are the several 
kinds of Governments ; and by what means, either from with- 


cHaP. v.] ART OF RHETORICK. 279 


out or from within, each of those kinds is preserved, or de- 
stroyed. And this knowledge is gotten, partly by observing 
the several Governments in times past, by History ; and part- 
ly by observing the Government of the times present in se- 
veral Nations, by Travel. } 

So that to him that will speak in a Councell of State, there 
is necessary this; History, Sight of Wars, Travel, Know- 
ledge of the Revenue, Expences, Forces, Havens, Garrisons, 
Wares, and Provisions in the State he lives in; and what is 
needful for that State, either to export or import. | 


CHAP. V. 


Of the Ends which the Orator in Deliberatives, propoundeth, whereby 
to exhort, or dehort. 


An Orator in Exhorting always propoundeth Felicity, or some 
part of Felicity to be attained by the actions he exhorteth unto: 
and in Dehortation the contrary. 

By Felicity, is meant commonly, Prosperity with vertue, or 
a continual content of the life with surety. And the parts of 
it are such things as we call good, in body, mind, or fortune ; 
such as these that follow. 

1. Nobility. Which to a State or Nation is, to have been 
antient inhabitants ; and to have had most antiently, and in 
most number, famous Generals in the Wars, or men famous 
for such things as fall under emulation. And to a private man, 
to have been descended lawfully of a Family, which hath yielded 
most antiently, and in most number, men known to the World 
for vertue, riches, or any thing in general estimation. 

2. Many and good Children. Which is also publick and 
private. Publick, when there is much youth in the State en- 
dued with vertue, (namely, of the body, stature, beauty, strength, 
and dexterity: Of the mind, valour, and temperance). Pri- 
vate, when a man hath many such Children, both Male and 
Female. The vertues commonly resnected in Women, are of 
the body, Beauty, and Stature; Of the mind, Temperance, and 
Houswifery, without Sordidness. 

3. Riches. Which is, Money, Cattel, Lands, Houshold- 
stuffe ; with the power to dispose of them. 

4. Glory. Which is, the reputatwn of Vertue, or of the 


22) HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE "BOCK 1. 


possession of such things as all, or most men, or wise men : 
desire. 

5. Honour, Which is, the glory of benefiting, or being able 
to benefit others. To benefit others, is to contribute somewhat, 
not easily had, to another man’s safety, or riches. The parts 
of Honour are, Sacrifices, Monuments, Rewards, Dedication 
of places, Precedence, Sepulchres, Statues, publick Pensions, 
Adorations, Presents. 

6. Health. Which is the being free from Diseases, with 
strength to use the body. 

7. Beauty. Which is to different Ages different. To 
Youth, strength of body, and sweetness of aspect. To Full 
Men, strength of body fit for the Wars, and Countenance sweet, 
with a mixture of Terror. To Old Men, strength enough for 
necessary labours, with a Countenance not displeasing. 

8. Strength. Which is the ability to move any thing at 
pleasure of the Mover. To move, is to pull, to put off, to lift, 
to thrust down, to press together. 

9. Stature. Which is then just, when a man in height, 
breadth, and thickness of body doth so exceed the mosi, as ne-+ 
vertheless it be no hindrance to the quickness of his motion. 

10. Good old Age. Which is, that which comes late, and 
with the least trouble. 

tl. Many and good Friends. Which is, to have many that 
will do for his sake that which they think will be for his good. 

12. Prosperity. Which is, to have all, or the most, or the 
greatest of those goods which we attribute to Fortune. 

13. Vertue. Which is then to be defined, when we speak 
of Praise. 

These are the grounds from whence we exhort. 

Dehortation is from the contraries of these. 


CHAP. VI. 
Of the Colours or common Opinions concerning Good and Evil. 


In Deliberatives, the Principles, or Elements from whence we 
draw our Proofs, are common Opinions concerning Good and 
Evil. And these Principles are either Absolute, or Com- 
parative. And those that are Absolute, are either Disputable, 
ov Indisputable. 


GHAP. V1.] ART OF &RHETORICK. 281 


The Indisputable Principles are such as these : 

Good, is that which we love for it self. 

And that, for which we love somewhat else. 

And that which all things desire. 

And that to every man which his reason dictates. 

And that, which when we have, we are well, or satisfied. 

And that which satisfies. 

And the Cause or Effect of any of these. 

And that which preserves any of these. 

And that which keeps off, or destroys the contrary of any 
of these. 

Also to take the Good, and reject the Evil, is Good. 

And to take the greater Good, rather than the less; and 
the lesser Evil, rather than the greater. 

Further, all Vertues are Good. 

And Pleasure. 

And all things Beautiful. 

And Justice, Valour, Temperance, Magnanimity, Magnifi- 
cence ; and other like Habits. 

And Health, Beauty, Strength, etc. 

And Riches. 

And Friends. 

And Honour, and Glory. 

And Ability to say or do; also Towardliness, Will, and the 
like. 

And whatsoever Art, or Science. 

And Life. 

And whatsoever is Just. 

The Disputable Principles are such as follow : 

That is Good, whose contrary is Evil. 

And whose contrary is Good for our Enemies. 

And whose contrary our Enemies are glad of. 

And of which there cannot be too much. 

And upon which much labour and cost hath been bestowed. 

And that which many desire. 

And that which is praised. 

And that which even our Enemies and evil men praise. 

And what good we prefer. 

And what we do advise. 

And that which is possible, is Good (to undertake). 

And that which is easie. 


282 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book L 


And that which depends on our own Will. 

And that which is proper for us to do. 

And what no man else can do. 

And whatsoever is Extraordinary. 

And what is suitable. 

And that which wants a little of being at an end. 
‘And what we hope to master. 

And what we are fit for. 

And what evil men do not. 

And what we love to do. 


_CHAP. VII. 


Of the Colours, or common Opinions concerning Good and Evii, 
comparatively. 


THE Colours of Good comparatively depend partly upon the 
following Definitions of Comparatives. 

1. More, is so much, and somewhat besides. 

2. Less, is that, which and somewhat else is so much. 

3. Greater and more in number are laid only Comparatively 
to Less, and Fewer in number. 

4. Great and Little, Many and Few, are taken Compara- 
tively to the Most of the same kind. So that Great and Many, 
is that which exceeds; Little and Few, is that which is ex - 
ceeded by the Most of the same kind. 

Partly from the precedent Definitions of Good absolutely. 


Common Opinions concerning Good 
Comparatively, then, are these. 


Greater Good is Many, than fewer, or one of those many. 

And Greater is the kind, in which the greatest is greater 
than the greatest of another kind. And greater is that Good 
than another good, whose kind is greater than another’s kind. 

And Greater is that from which another Good follows ; 
than the Good which follows. 

And of two which exceed a third, Greater is that which 
exceeds it most. 

And that which causes the greater Good. 

And that which proceeds from a greater Good, 

And Greater is that which is chosen for it self, than that 
which is chosen from somewhat else. 


CHAP VII.J ART OF RHETORICK. 283 


And the end Greater than that which is not the end. 

And that which less needs other things, than that which 

more. 

And that which is independent, than that which is depend- 

ent of another. 

And the Beginning, than not the Beginning. 

[Seeing the Beginning is a greater Good, or Evil, than 
that which is not the Beginning ; and the End, than that 
which is not the End; One may argue from this Colour 
both ways: as Leodamas against Chabrias, would have 
the Actor more to blame than the Advisor; and against 
Callistratus, the Advisor more than the Actor. ] 

And the Cause, than not the Cause. 

And that which hath a greater Beginning or Cause. 

And the Beginning, or Cause of a greater Good or Evil. 

And that which is Scarce, greater than that which is Plen- 

tiful ; because harder to get. 

And that which is Plentiful, than that which is Scarce; 

because oftener in Use. 

And that which is easie, than that which is hard. 

And that whose Contrary is greater. 

And that whose Want is greater. 

And Vertue than not Vertue, a greater Good. Vice, than 

not Vice, a greater Evil. 

And greater Good, or Evil is that, the effects whereof are 

more Honourable or more Shameful. 

And the effects of greater Vertues, or Vices. 

And the Excess whereof is more tolerabl , a greater Good. 

And those things which may with more honour be desired. 

And the desire of better things. 

And those things whereof the Knowledge is better. 

And the Knowledge of better things. 

And that which wise men prefer. 

And that which is in better men. 

And that which better men chuse. 

And that which is more, than that which is less delightful. 

And that which is more, than that which is less honourable. 

And that which we would have for our selves and Friends, 

a greater Good; and the contrary a greater Evil. 
And that which is Lasting, than that which is not Lasting. 
And that which is Firm, than that which is not Firm, 


284 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE / [Book L 


And what many desire, than what few. 

And what the Adversary, or Judge confesseth to be greens 
is greater. 

And Common than not Common. 

And not Common tian Common. 

And what is more Laudable. 
- And that which is more Honoured, a greater Good. 

And that which is more Punished, a greater Evil. 

And both Good and £vil divided than undivided, appear 
greater. 

And Compounded than Simple, appear greater. 

And that which is done with Opportunity, Age, Place, 
Time, Means disadvantagious, greater than otherwise. 

And that which is natural, than that which is attained unto. 

And the same part of that which is great, than of that 
which is less. 

And that which is nearest to the end designed. 

And that which is Good or Evil to ones self, than that 
which is simply so. 

And possible, than not possible. 

And that which comes toward the end of our Life. ~ 

And that which we do really, than that which we do for show. 

And that which we would be, rather than what we would 
seem to be. 

And that which is good for more purposes, is the greater 
Good. 

And that which serves us in great necessity. 

And that which is joyned with less trouble. 

And that which is joyned with more delight. 

And of the two, that which added to a “third, makes se 
whole the greater. 

And that which having, we are more sensible of. 

And in every thing, that which we most esteem. 


CHAP. VIII. 


Of the several Kinds of Governments. 


BecausrE Hortation and Dehortation concern the Common- 
wealth, and are drawn from the Elements of Good and Evil; 
as we have spoken of them already in the Abstract, so we 


CHAP. VIII. | ART OF RHETORICK. 288. 


must speak of them also in the Concrete; that is, of what is 

Good or Evil to each sort of Commonwealth in special. 

| The Government of a Commonwealth, is either Democracy, 
or Aristocracy, or Oligarchy, or Monarchy. 

Democracy is that, wherein all men with equal right, are 
preferred to the highest Magistracy by Lot. 

Aristocracy is that, wherein the highest Magistrate is 
chosen out of those, that had the best education, according to 
what the Laws prescribe for best. 

Oligarchy is that, where the highest Magistrate is chosen 
for wealth. 

Monarchy is that, wherein one man hath the Government of 
all; which Government, if he limit by Law, is called King- 
dom; if by his own will, Tyranny. 

The end of Democracy, or the Peoples Government, is 
Liberty. 

The end of Oligarchy, is the riches of those that govern, 

The end of Aristocracy is good Laws, and good ordering of 
the City. 

The end of Monarchy, or Kings, is the safety of the People, 
and conservation of his own Authority. 

Good therefore, in each sort of Government is that which 
conduceth to these their ends. 

And because belief is not gotten only by proofs, but also 
from manners; the manners of each sort of Commonwealth - 
ought to be well understood by him that undertaketh to per- 
swade or diswade in matter of State. Their manners may be 
known by their designs; and their designs by their ends; and 
their ends by what we see them take pleasure in. But of this 
more accurately in the Politicks. 


CHAP. IX. 
Of the Colours of Honourable and Dishonourable. 


In a Demonstrative Oration, the subject whereof is Praise, 
or Dispraise; the proofs are to be drawn from the Elements 
of Honourable and Dishonourable. 

In this place we anticipate the second way of getting be- 
lief; which is from the manners of the Speaker, For Praise, 
whether it come in as the principal business, or upon the by, 
depends still upon the same Principles. Which are these : 


286 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [poox 1 


Honourable, is that, which we love for itself, and is withal 
laudable. 

And that Good, which pleaseth us only because ’tis Good. 

And Vertue. 

Vertue is the faculty of getting and preserving that which 
is Good; and the faculty of doing many, and great things 
well. 

The kinds of it are these; 

1. Justice; which is a Vertue whereby every man obtains 
what by Law is his. 

2. Fortitude; which is a Vertue by which a man carries 
himself Honourably, and according to the Laws, in time of 
danger. 
8. Temperance; which is a Vertue whereby a man Governs 

himself in matter of pleasure according to the Law. 

4, Liberality; which is a Vertue, by which we benefit 
others in matter of money. 

5. Magnanimity ; which is a Vertue, by which a man is apt 
to do great benefits. 

6. Magnificence ; which is a Vertue, by which a man is apt 
to be at great cost. 

7. Prudence; which is an Intellectual Vertue, by which a 
man is able to deliberate well concerning any Good leading to 
Felicity. 

And Honourable, are the Causes, and effects of things 
Honourable. 

And the Works of Vertue. 

And the signs of Vertue. 

And those actions, the reward whereof is Honour. 

And the reward whereof is rather Honour, than Money. 

And that which we do not for our own sakes. 

And what we do for our Countries good, neglecting our own. 

And those things are Honourable, which good of them- 
selves, are not so to the Owner. 

And those things which happen to the dead, rather than to 
the living. 

And what we do for other men, especially for Benefactors, 

And bestowing of Benefits. 

And the contrary of those things we are ashamed of. 

And those things which men strive for earnestly, but with- 

ut fear of Adversary. 


oHAP. IX. | ART OF RHETORICK. 287 


And of the more Honourable and better men, the Vertues 
are more Honourable. 

And more Honourable are the vertues that tend to other 
‘eens benefit, than those which tend to ones own. 

And Honourable are those things which are Just. 

And Revenge is Honourable. 

And Victory. 

And Honour. 

And Monuments. 

And those things which happen not to the living. 

And things that excel. 

And what none can do but we. 

And possessions we reap no profit by. 

And those things which are had in honour particularly in 
several places. 

And the signs of praise. 

And to have nothing of the servile, mercenary, or mechanick. 

And that which seems Honourable ; Namely such as follow. 

Vices confining upon Vertue. 

And the extreams of Vertues. 

And what the Auditors think Honourable. 

And that which is in estimation. 

And that which is done according to custom. 

Besides, in a Demonstrative Oration, the Orator must shew, 
that he whom he praiseth, did what he praiseth unconstrain- 
edly, and willingly. 

And he does so, who does the same often, 

Praise, is speech, declaring the magnitude of a Vertue, 
Action, or Work. 

But to praise the Work from the Vertue of the Worker, is 
a circular proof, 

To Magnify and to Praise, differ in themselves, as Felicity 
and Vertue. For Praise declares a mans Vertue ; and Mag- 
nifying declares his Felicity. . 

Praise is a kind of inverted Precept. For to say, Do it be- 
cause ’tis good, is a Precept. But to say, He is good becausa 
he did it, is Praise. 

An Orator in Praising must also use the forms of “μηρί 
cation ; such as these: 

He was the first that did it. 

Thea only man that did it. 


288 ΠΡΌ 5 BRIEF OF THE [Boom ἃ, 


The special man that did it. 
He did it with disadvantage of time. 
- He did it with little help. 

He was the cause, that the Law ordained Rewards and 
Honours for such Actions. 

Further, he that will praise a Man, must compare him 
with others; and his actions with the actions of others; 
especially with such as are renowned, 

And Amplification is more proper to a Demonstrative Ora- 
tion, than to any other. For here the Actions are confessed ; 
and the Orators part is only this, to contribute unto them 
Magnitude and Luster, 


CHAP. X. 
Of Accusation and Defence, with the Definition of Injury, 


In a Judicial Oration, which consists in Accusation and De- 
fence, the thing to be proved is, that Znjury has been done: 
and the heads from whence the proofs are to be drawn, are 
these three : 

1. The causes that move to Injury. 

2. The Persons apt to do Fnjury. 

3. The Persons obnoxious, or apt to suffer Injury. 

An Injury is a voluntary offending of another man contra: 
ry to the Law. 

Voluntary is that which a man does with knowledge, and 
without compulsion, : 

The causes of Voluntary Actions are Intemperance, and a 
Vicious disposition concerning things Desirable. As the Co- 
vetous man does against the Law, out of an intemperate desire 
of Money. 

All Actions proceed either from the doers disposition, or 
not. 

Those that proceed not from the Doers disposition are such 
as he does by Chance, by Compulsion, or by Natural necessity. 

Those that proceed from the Doers disposition, are such as 
he does by Custom, or upon Premeditation, or in Anger, or 
out of Intemperance. 

By Chance are said to be done those things whereof neither 
the Cause, nor the Scope is evident; and which are done nei- 


CHAP. XI.] ART OF RHETORICK. © 289 


ther orderly, nor always, nor most commonly after the same 
manner. 

By Nature are said to be done those things, the Causes 
whereof are in the Doer; and are done orderly, and always, 
or for the most part after the same manner. 

By Compulsion are done those things, which are against 
the Appetite, and Ordination of the Doer. 

By Custom those Actions are said to be done, the Cause 
whereof is this, that the Doer has done them often. 

Upon Premeditation are said to be done those things which 
are done for profit, as the End, or the way to the End. 

In Anger are said to be done those things which are done 
with a purpose to Revenge. 

Out of Intemperance are said to be done those things which 
are delightful. 

In sum, every Voluntary Action tends either to Profit or 
Pleasure. 

The Colours of Profitable are already set down. 

The Colours of that which is Pleasing follow next. 


CHAP. XI. 
Of the Colours, or Common Opinions concerning Pleasure. 


PLEASURE is a sudden and sensible motion of the Soul, 
towards that which is Natural. 

Grief is the Contrary. 

Pleasant therefore is that, which is the cause of such motion. 

And to return to ones own Nature. 

And Customes. 

And those things that are not violent. 

Unpleasant are those things, which proceed from Necessity, 
as Cares, Study, Contentions. The contrary whereof, Ease, 
Remission from Labour and Care: also, Play, Rest, Sleep, are 
Pleasant. 

Pleasant also is that, to which we have an appetite. 

Also the appetites themselves, if they be sensual ; as Thirst, 
Hunger, and Lust. 

Also those things to which we have an appetite upon per- 
awasion and Reason. 

Cc 


290 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [BOOK 1. 


And those things we remember, whether they pleased, or 
displeased, then when they were present. 

And the things we hope for. 

And Anger. 

And to be in Love. 

And Revenge. 

And Victory. Therefore, 

Also contentious Games ; as Tables, Chess, Dice, Tennis, ete. 

And Hunting. 

And Suits in Law. 

And Honour and Reputation amongst men in Honour and 
Reputation. 

And to Love. 

And to be Beloved and Bespanted: . 

And to be Admired. 

And to be Flattered. 

And a Flatterer: (for he seems rite to love and admire). 

And the same thing often. 

And Change, or Variety. 

And what we return to afresh, 

And to learn. 

And to admire. 

And to do Good. 

And to receive Good. 

And to help up again one that’s fallen. 

And to finish that which is unperfect. 

And Initation. 

And therefore the Art of Painting. 

And the Art of Carving Images. 

And the Art of Poetry. 

And Pictures and Statues. 

And other Mens Dangers, so they be near. 

And to have escaped hardly. 

And things of a kind please one another. 

And every one himself. 

And one’s own pleases him. 

And to bear Sway. 

And to be thought Wise. 

And to dwell upon that which he is good at. 

And ridiculous Actions, Sayings, and Persons. 


CHAP. x11] ART OF RHETORICK. 291 


CHAP. XII. 


Presumptions of Injury drawn from the Persons that do tt: or 
Common Opinions concerning the Aptitude of Persons 
to do Injury. 


Or the Causes which move to Injury, namely, Profit and 
Pleasure, has been already spoken, Chap. 6, 7, 11. 

It follows next to speak of the Persons, that are apt to do 
Injury. 

The Doers of Injury are, 

Such as think they can do it. 

And such as think to be undiscovered when they have 
done it. 

And such as think, though they be discovered, they shall 
not be called in question for it. 

And such as think, though they be called in question for it, 
that their Mulct will be less than their Gain, which either 
themselves or their Friends receive by the Injury. 

Able to do Injury are, 

Such as are Eloquent. 

And such as are practised in Business. 

And such as have skill in Process. 

And such as have many Friends. 

And Rich Men. 

And such as have Rich Friends; or Rich Sieve: : or 
Rich Partners. 

Undiscovered when they have done it, are, 

Such as are not apt to commit the crimes whereof they are 
accused: as Feeble Men, Slaughter: Poor, and not Beautiful 
Men, Adultery 

And such as one would think could not chuse but be dis- 
covered. 

And such as do Injuries, whereof there hath been no 
Example. 

And such as have none, or many enemies. 

And such as can easily conceal what they do. 

And such as have some body to transfer the fault upon. 

They that do Injury openly, are, 

Sneh whose friends have been Injured. 

u 2 


292 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Boox 1. 


And such as have the Judges for friends. 

And such as can escape their Tryal at Law. 

And such as can put off their Tryal. 

And such as can corrupt the Judges. 

And such as.can avoid the payment of their Fine. 

And such as can defer the payment. 

And such as cannot pay at all. 

And such as by the Injury get manifestly, much, and pre- 
sently ; when the Fine is uncertain, little, and to come. 

And such as get by the Injury, money; by the penalty, 
shame only. 

And such on the Contrary, as get honour by the Injury, and 
suffer the mulct of money, only, or banishment, or the like. 

And such as have often escaped, or been undiscovered. 

And such as have often attempted in vain. 

And such as consider present pleasure, more than pain to 
come ; and so intemperate men are apt to do Injury. 

And such as consider pleasure to come, more than present 
pain; and so temperate men are apt to do Injury. 

And such as may seem to have done it by Fortune, Nature, 
Necessity, or Custom ; and by Error, rather than by Injustice. 

And such as have means to get pardon. 

And such as want Necessaries, as poor men: or Unneces- 
saries, as rich men. 

And such as are of very good, or very bad Reputation. 


-CHAP. XIII. 


Presumptions of Injury drawn from the Persons that suffer, and from 
the Matter of the Injury. 


Or those that do Injury, and why they do it, it hath been 
already spoken. 

Now of the persons that suffer, and of the Matter wherein 
they suffer, the common Opinions are these : 

Persons obnoxious to Injury are, 

Such as have the things that we want, either as necessary, 
or as delightful. 

And such as are far from us. 

And such as are at hand. 

And such as are unwary, and credulous. 


cap. x11} ART OF RHETORICK. 293 


And such as are lazy. 

And such as are modest. ) 

And such as have swallowed many Injuries. 

And such as have Injured often before. 

And such as never before. 

And such as are in our danger. 

And such as are ill beloved generally. 

And such as are envyed. 

And our Friends. 

And our Enemies. 

And such as, wanting friends, have no great ability either 
in speech or action. 

And such as shall be losers by going to Law: as, Strangers, 
and Workmen. 

And such as have done the Injuries they suffer. 

And such as have committed a crime, or would have done, 
or are about to do. 

And such as, by doing them an Injury, we shall gratifie 
our friends or superiours. 

And such, whose friendship we have newly left, and accuse. 

And such as another would do the Jury to, if we should 
not. 

And such as by Injuring, we get greater means of doing 
good. 

The Matters wherein men are obnoxious to Injury are, 
Those things wherein all, or most men use to deal unjustly. 
And those things which are easily hid, and put off into 

other hands, or altered. 
And those things which a man is ashamed to have suffered. 
And those things wherein prosecution of Injury, may be 
thought a love of contention. 


CHAP. XIV. 


Of those Things which are necessary to be known for the Definition 
of Just and Unjust. 


Wuen the fact is evident, the next Inquiry is, whether it 
be Just, or Unjust. 

For the Definition of Just and Unjust, we must know what 
Law is: that is, what the Law of Nature, what the Law of 


294 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Boox 1. 


Nations; what the Law Civil, what written Law, and what 
unwritten Law is: and what Persons, that is, what a publick 
Person, or the City is; and what a private Person, or Citi- 
zen is. 

_ Unjust in the opinion of all men, is that which is contrary 
to the Law of Nature. 

Unjust in the opinion of all men of those Nations which 
traffick and come together, is that which is contrary to the 
Law common to those Nations. 

Unjust only in one Common-wealth, is that which is con- 
trary to the Law Civil, or Law of that Common-wealth. 

He that is accused to have doné any thing against the Pub- 
lick, or a private Person, is accused to do it either ignorantly, 
or unwillingly, or in anger, or upon premeditation. 

And because the Defendant does many times confess the 
fact, but deny the unjustice ; as that he took, but did not steal ; 
and did, but not adultery; it is necessary to know the Defini- 
tions of Theft, Adultery, and all other crimes. 

What facts are contrary to the written Laws, may be known 
by the Laws themselves. 

Besides written Laws, whatsoever is Just, proceeds from 
Equity or Goodness. 

From Goodness proceeds that which we are praised, or 
honoured for. 

From Equity proceed those actions, which though the writ- 
ten Law command not, yet being interpreted reasonably, and 
supplyed, seems to require at our hands. 

Actions of Equity are such as these, 

Not too rigorously to punish Errors, Mischances, or Injuries. 

To pardon the faults that adhere to Mankind. 

And not to consider the Law so much, as the Law-makers 
mind; and not the Words so much, as the meaning of the 
Law’. 

And not to regard so much the Fact, as the intention of 
the Doer; nor part of the Fact, but the Whole; nor what the 
Doer is, but what he has been always, or for the most part. Ἂὑ“-ἠ 


' For, as the Quarterly Reviewer but too justly remarks, “‘ To violate 
the spirit by obeying the letter, is often the painful duty of the judge ; to 
make the letter conform to the spirit, is the privilege of the legislator ;” 
and (he might have added) of the arbitrator, whose standard is equity. 
See Quarterly Review, vol. xxvii. p. 133. 


CHAP. XV., ART OF RHETORICK. 295 


And to remember better the Good received, than the Il. 

And to endure injuries patiently. 

And to submit rather to the sentence of a Judge, than of 
the Sword. 

And to the sentence of an Arbitrator, rather than of a Judge. 


CHAP. XV. 


Of the Colours or Common Opinions concerning Injuries 
comparatively. 


COMMON Opinions concerning Injuries comparatively, are 
such as these: 

Greater is the Injury which proceed from greater Iniquity. 

And from which proceedeth greater damage, 

And of which there is no revenge. 

And for which there is no remedy. 

And by occasion of which, he that hath received the Injury, 
hath done some mischief to himself. 

He does the greater Znjury, that does it first, or alone, or 
with few. 

And he that does it often. 

Greater Injury is that, against which Laws and Penalties 
were first made. 

And that which is more brutal, or more approaching to the 
actions of beasts. 

And that which is done upon more premeditation. 

And by which more Laws are broken. 

And which is done in the place of Execution. 

And which is of greatest shame to him that receives the 
Injury. 

And which is committed against well deservers. 

And which is committed against the unwritten Law ; be- 
cause good men should observe the Law for Justice, and not 
for fear of punishment. 

And which is committed against the written Law ; because 
he that will do Injury, neglecting the penalty set down in the 
written Law, is much more likely to transgress the unwritten 
Law, where there is no penalty at all. 


296 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE TRoox ὦ 


CHAP. XVI. 
Of Proofs Inartificial. 


Or Artificial Proofs we have already spoken. © 

Inartificial Proofs, which we invent not, but make use of, 
are of five sorts. 

1. Laws. And those are Civil, or written Law: the Law 
or Custom of Nations: and the universal Law of Nature. 

2. Witness. And those are such as concern Matter; and 
such as concern Manners. Also, they be ancient, or present. 

3. Evidences, or Writings. 

4. Question, or Torture. 

5. Oaths. And those be either given, or taken, or both, or 
neither. 

For Laws, we use them thus: 

When the written Law makes against us, we appeal to the 
Law of Nature, alledging, 

That to be greatest Justice, which is greatest Equity. 

That the Law of Nature is immutable; the written Law 
mutable. 

That the written Law is but seeming justice; the Law of 
Nature very Justice. And Justice is among those things 
which are, and not which seem to be. 

That the Judge ought to discern between true and adul- 
terate Justice. 

That they are better men that obey unwritten, than written 
Laws. 

That the Law against us does contradict some other Law. 
And when the Law has a double interpretation, that is the 
true one, which makes for us. 

And that the cause.of the Law being abolished, the Law 
1s no more of Validity. 

But when the written Law makes for us, and Equity for 
the Adversary, we must alledge, 

That a man may use Equity, not as a liberty to judge 
against the Law; but only as a security against being for- 
sworn, when he knows not the Law. 

That men seek not Equity because ’tis good simply, but be- 
cause good for them. 


CHAP. XVI. ] ART OF RHETORICK. 297 


That it is the same thing not to make, and not to use the Law. 
That as in other Arts, and namely in Physick, fallacies are 
pernitious ; so in a Common-wealth ’tis pernitious to use pre- 
texts against the Law. 
And that in Common-wealths well instituted, to seem wiser 
than the Laws, is prohibited. é 
For Witnesses, we must use them thus: 
When we have them not, we must stand for Preswmptions, 
and say, ! 
That in Equity sentence ought to be given according to the 
most probability. 
That Presumptions are the testimony of the things them- 
selves, and cannot be bribed. 
That they cannot lye. 
When we have Witnesses, against him that has them 
not, we must say, 
That Presumptions, if they be false, cannot be punished. 
That if Presumptions were enough, Witnesses were super- 
fluous. 
For Writings, when they favour us, we must say, 
That Writings are private and particular Laws; and he 
that takes away the use of Evidences, abolisheth the Law. 
That since Contracts and Negotiations pass by Writings, he 
that bars their use, dissolves humane Society. 
Against them, if they favour the Adversary, we may say, 
That since Laws do not bind, that are fraudulently made to 
pass, much less Writings. 
And that the Judge being to dispense Justice, ought rather 
to consider what is just, than what is in the Writing. 
That Writings may be gotten by fraud or force ; but Justice 
by neither. 
That the Writing is repugnant to some Law, Civil, or 
Natural; or to Justice; or to Honesty. 
That ’tis repugnant to some other Writing before, or after. 
That it crosses some commodity of the Judge (which must 
not be said directly, but implyed cunningly). 
‘For the Torture, if the giving of it make for us, we 
must say, 
That ’tis the only testimony that is certain. 
But if it make for the Adversary, we may say, 
That men inforced by Torture, speak as well that which ig 
false, as that which is true. 


298 THE ART OF RHETORICK. " [Book τ. 


That they who can endure, conceal the truth; and they 

who cannot, say that which is false to be delivered from pain. 

For Oaths ; he that will not put his Adversary to his 
Oath, may alledge, 

That he makes no scruple to be forsworn. 

That by swearing, he will carry the cause; which not 
swearing, he must lose. 

That he had rather trust his cause in the hand of the 
Judge, than of the Adversary. 

He that refuseth to take the Oath, may say, 

That the matter is not worth so much. 

That if he had been an evil man, he had sworn, and 
carryed his cause. 

That to try it by swearing for a religious man against an 
irreligious, is as hard a match, as to set a weak man against 
a strong in combate. 

He that is willing to take the Oath, may pretend, 

That he had rather trust himself, than his Adversary; and 
that ’tis equal dealing for an irreligious man to give, and for 
a religious man to take the Oath. 

That ’tis his duty to take the Oath, since he has required 
to have sworn Judges. 

He that offers the Oath may pretend, 

That he does piously commit his cause to the Gods. 

That he makes his Adversary himself Judge. 

That ’twere absurd for him not to swear, that has required 
the Judges fo be sworn. 

And of these are to be compounded the Forms we are to 
use, when we would give, and not take the Oath; or take, and 
not give; or both give and take; or neither give nor take. 

But if one have sworn contrary to a former Oath, he may 
pretend, | 

That he was forced. 

That he was deceived, and that neither of these is Perjury, 
since Perjury is voluntary. 

But if the Adversary do so, he may say, 

‘That he that stands not to what he hath sworn, subverteth 
humane Society. 

And (turning to the Judge) What reason have we to re- 
quire, that you should be sworn, that judge our cause; when 
we will not stand to that we swear ourselves. 

And so much for Proofs inartificial. 


BOOK Ii. 


CHAP. I. 
The Introduction. 


Or Belief proceeding from our Invention, that part which 
consisteth in Proof, is already spoken of. 

The other two parts follow; whereof one ariseth from the 
manners of the Speaker; the other from the passions of the 
Hearer. . 

The Principles, Colours, or Common Opinions upon which 
a mans belief is grounded concerning the manners of him 
that speaks, are to be had partly out of that which hath been 
said before concerning Vertue, book i. chap. 9, partly out of 
those things which shall be said by and by, concerning the 
Passions. For a man is believed either for his Prudence, or 
for his Probity, which are Vertues; or for Good Will: of. 
which among the Passions. 

The Principles concerning Belief, arising from the Passion 
of the Hearer, are to be gathered from that which shall now 
be said of the several Passzons in order. 

In every one of which three things are to be considered : 

1. First, how men are affected. 

2. Secondly, towards whom. 

3. Thirdly, for what. 


CHAP. IT, 
Of Anger. 


ANGER is desire of Revenge, joyned with grief for that he, 
or some of his, is, or seems to be neglected. 

The object of Anger is always some particular, or individual 
thing. 


800 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [sto αι. 


In Anger there is also pleasure proceeding from the imagina- 
tion of revenge to come. 

To Neglect, is to esteem little or nothing : and of three kinds. 

1. Contempt. 

2. Crossing. 

3. Contumely. | 

Contempt, is when a man thinks another of little worth in 
comparison to himself. 

Crossing, is the hinderance of another mans will without 
design to profit himself. 

Contumely, is the disgracing of another for his own pastime. 

The common Opinions concerning Anger are therefore 
such as follow: 

They are easily Angry that think they are neglected. 

That think they excell others; as the Rich with the Poor ; 
the Noble with the Obscure, etc. 

And such as think they deserve well. 

And such as grieve to be hindered, opposed, or not assisted. 
And therefore sick men, poor men, lovers, and generally all 
that desire and attain not, are angry with those that standing 
by, are not moved with their wants. 

And such as having expected good, find evil. 

Those that men are angry with, are, 

Such as mock, deride, or jest at them. 

And such as shew any kind of Contumely, towards them. 

And such as despise those things which we spend most la- 
bour and study upon: and the more, by how much we seem 
the less advanced therein. 

And our friends, rather than those that are not our friends. 

And such as have honoured us, if they continue not. 

And such as requite not our courtesie. 

And such as follow contrary courses, if they be our inferiours. 

And our friends, if they have said, or done us evil, or not 
good. 

And such as give not eare to our intreaty. 

And such as are joyful, or calm in our distress. 

And such as troubling us, are not themselves troubled. 

And such as willingly hear or see our disgraces. 

And such as neglect us in the presence of our Competitors ; 
of those we admire ; of those we would have admire us; of 
those we reverence; and of those that reverence us. 


CHAP III.] ART OF RHETORICK. 80] 


And such as should help us, and neglect it. 

And such as are in jest, when we are in earnest. 

And such as forget us, or our Names. 

An Orator therefore must so frame his Judge or Auditor 
by his Oration ; as to make him apt to Anger: and then make 
his Adversary appear such as men use to be angry withal. 


CHAP, III. 
Of Reconciling, or Pacifying Anger. 


RECONCILIATION is the appeasing of Anger. 
Those to whom men are easily reconciled, are, 
Such as have not offended out of neglect. 
And such as have done it against their will. 
And such as wish done the contrary of what they have done 
And such as have done as much to themselves. 
And such as confess and repent. 
And such as are humbled, 
And such as do seriously the same things, that they do se- 
riously. 
And such as have done them more good heretofore, than 
now hurt. 
And such as sue to them for any thing. 
And such as are not insolent, nor mockers, nor slighters οὗ 
others in their own disposition. 
And generally such as are of a contrary disposition to those, 
whom men are usually angry withal. 
And such as they fear or reverence. 
And such as reverence them. 
And such as have offended their Anger. 
Reconcileable are, 
Such as are contrarily affected to those whom we have said 
before to be easily angry. 
And such as play, laugh, make merry, prosper, live in plen- 
ty ; and in sum, all that have no cause of grief. 
And such as have given their anger time. 
Men lay down their Anger for these Causes. 
Because they have gotten the Victory. 
Because the Offender has suffered more than they meant to 
inflict. 3 


302 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [nook 1, 


Because they have been revenged of another. 

Because they think they suffer justly. 

And because they think the revenge will not be felt, or not 
known that the revenge was theirs, and for such an injury. 

And because the Offender is dead. 

Whosoever therefore would asswage the anger of his Audi- 
tor, must make himself appear such, as men use to be recon- 
ciled unto: and beget in his Auditor such opinions, as make 
him reconcileable. 


CHAP. IV. 
Of Love and Friends, 


To Love, is to will well to another, and that for others, not 
for our own sake. 

A Friend is he that loves, and he that is beloved. 

Friends one to another, are they that naturally love one 
another. ; 

A Friend therefore is he, 

That rejoyceth at anothers Good. 

And that grieves at his hurt. 

And that wishes the same with us to a third, whether good, 
or hurt. 

And that is Enemy or Friend to the same man. 

We love them, 

That have done good to us, or ours; especially if much, 
readily, or in season. 

That are our Friends Friends. 

That are our Enemies Enemies. 

That are Liberal. 

That are Valiant. 

That are Just. 

And that we would have love us, 

And good Companions. 

And such as can abide Jests, 

And such as break Jests. ἡ 

And such as praise us, especially for somewhat that we 
doubt of in our selves. 

And such as are neat. 

And such as upbraid us not with our vices, or with their 
own benefits. © 


CHAP. ly.] ART OF RHETORICK. 802 


And such as quickly forget injuries. 

And such as least observe our Errors. 

And such as are not of ill Tongue. 

And those that are ignorant of our Vices. 

And such as cross us not when we are busie, or angry. 

And such as are officious towards us. 

And those that are like us. 

And such as follow the same course or trade of life, where 
they impeach not one another. 

And such as labour for the same thing, when both may be 
. satisfied. 

And such as are not ashamed to tell us freely their faults, 
so it be not in contempt of us, and the faults such, as the World, 
rather than their own Consciences condemns. 

And such as are ashamed to tell us of their very faults. 

And such as we would have honour us, and not envie, but 
imitate us. 

And such as we would do good to, except with greater hurt 
to our selves. 

And such as continue their Friendship to the dead. 

And such as speak their mind. 

And such as are not terrible. 

And such as we may rely on. 

The several kinds of Friendship, are Society, FOREN 
Consanguinity, Affinity, etc. 

The things that beget Love, are, 


The bestowing } panes, 


of Benefits, ᾿Ἰρανοχῇ 


CHAP. V. 
Of Enmity and Hatred, 


Tue Colours, or Common Opinions concerning Hatred are to 
be taken from the contrary of those, which concern Love and 
Friendship. 
Hatred differs from Anger in this, 

That Anger regards only what is done to ones self; but 
Hatred not. 

And in this, that Anger regards particulars only ; the other 
universals also. 


801 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE {BooK τι. 


And in this, that Anger is curable, Hatred not. 

And in this, that Anger seeks the vexation, Hatred the 
damage of ones Adversary. 

‘That with Anger there is always joined Grief ; with Hatred 
not always. 

That Anger may at length be satiated, but Hatred never. 

Hence it appears how the Judge or Auditor may be made 
Friend or Enemy to us; and how our Adversary may be 
made appear Friend or Enemy to the Judge; and how we 
may answer to our Adversary, that would make us appear 
Enemies to him. 


CHAP. VI. 
Of Fear. 


FEAR is a trouble, or vexation of the mind, arising from the 
apprehension of an evil at hand, which may ‘hurt or destroy. 
Danger is the nearness of the evil feared. 
The things to be feared, are, 
Such as have power to hurt. 
And the signs of will to do us hurt, as Anger and Hatred 
of powerful men. 
And Injustice joyned with Power. 
And Valour provoked, joyned with Power. 
And the fear of powerful men. 
The men that are to be feared, are. 
Such as know our Faults. 
And such as can do us Injury. 
And such as think they are injured by us. 
And such as have done us Injury. 
And our Competitors in such things as cannot satisfie both. 
And such as are feared by more powerful men than we are. 
And such as have destroyed greater men than we are. 
And such as use to invade their inferiours. 
And men not passionate, but dissemblers, and crafty, are 
more to be feared than those that are hasty and free. 
The things especially to be feared, are, 
Such, wherein if we err, the error cannot be repaired; at 
least, not according to ours, but our Adversaries pleasure. 
And such as admit either none, or not easie help. 


CHAP. VII. | ART OF RHETORICK. 303 


And such as being done, or about to be done to others, 

make us pity them. 
They that fear not, are, 

Such as expect not evil; or not now; or not this; or not 
from these. 

And therefore men fear little in prosperity. 

And men fear little that think they have suffered already. 

An Orator therefore that would put Fear into the Auditor, 
must let him see that he is obnoxious; and that greater than 
he do suffer, and have suffered from those, and at those times 
they least thought. 


CHAP, VII. 
Of Assurance. 


ASSURANCE is hope, arising from an imagination that the help 
is near, or the evil afar off. 
The things therefore that beget Assurance are, 

The remoteness of those things that are to be feared, and 
the nearness of their contraries. 

And the facility of great, or many helps or remedies. 

And neither to have done, nor received Injury. 

And to have no Competitors, or not great ones, or if great 
ones, at least friends; such as we have obliged, or are obliged to. 

And that the danger is extended to more, or greater than us. 

Assured, or Confident, are, 

They that have oft escaped danger. 

And they to whom most things have succeeded well. 

And they that see their Equals, or inferiours not afraid. 

And they that have wherewith to make themselves feared, 
as wealth, strength, etc. 

And such as have done others no wrong. 

And such as think themselves in good terms with God 
Almighty. 

And such as think they will speed well that are gone before. 


306 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE BOOK 1]. 


CHAP. VIII, 
Of Shame. 


SHAME is a perturbation of the Mind arising from the appre- 
hension of Evil, past, present, or to come, to the prejudice of 
a mans own, or his friends reputation. 

The things therefore which men are ashamed of are those 
Actions which proceed from Vice, as, 

To throw away ones Arms; to run away; signs of Coward- 
liness. 

To deny that which is committed to ones trust, a sign of 
Injustice. 

To have lyen with whom, where, and when we ought not, 
signs of Intemperance. 

To make gain of small and base things; not to help with 
money whom and how much we ought; ‘to receive help from 
meaner men ; to ask money at use from such as one thinks will 
borrow of him ; to borrow of him that expects payment of 
somewhat before lent ; and to redemand what one has lent, of 
him that one thinks will borrow more; and so to praise, as 
one may be thought to ask; signs of Wretchedness. 

To praise one to his face; to praise his vertues too much, 
and colour his. vices ; signs of Flattery. 

To be unable to indure such labours as men indure that are 
elder, tenderer, greater in quality, and of less strength than 
he; signs of Effeminacy. 

To be beholden often to another ; and to upbraid those that 
are beholding to him; signs of Pusillanimity. 

To speak and promise much of ones self more than is due ; 
signs of Arrogance. 

To want those things which ones Equals, all, or most of 
them have attained to, is also a thing to be ashamed of. 

And to suffer things i ignominious, as to serve about anothers 
person ; or to be imployed in his base Actions. 

In Actions of Intemperance, whether willingly, or unwill- 
ingly committed; there is shame in Actions of Force, only 
when they are done unwillingly. 

The men before whom we are ashamed, are such as We 
respect ; namely, 


CHAP, VIII. | ART OF RHETORICK. 307 


Those that admire us. 

And those whom we desire should admire us. 

And those whom we admire. 

Those that contend with us for Honour. 

Those whose opinion we contemn not. 

And therefore men are most ashamed in the presence, 

Of old and well bred men. 

Of those we are always to live with. 

Of those that are not guilty of the same fault. 

Of those that do not easily pardon. 

And of those that are apt to reveal our faults; such as are 
men injured, Backbiters, Scoffers, Comick Poets. 

And of those before whom we have had always good success. 

And of those who never asked any thing of us before. 

And of such as desire our Friendship. 

And of our familiars, that know none of our crimes. 

And of such as will reveal our faults to any of those that 
are named before. 

But in the presence of such whose judgment most men 
despise, men are not ashamed. 

Therefore we are ashamed also in the presence, 

Of those whom we reverence. 

And of those who are concerned in our own, or Ancestors, 
or Kinsfolks actions or misfortunes, if they be shameful. 

And of their Rivals. . 

And of those that are to live with them that know their 
disgrace. 

The Common Opinions concerning Impudence are taken 
from the contrary of these. 


CHAP, IX. 
Of Grace, or Favour. 


GRACE is that Vertue, by which a man is said to do a good 
turn, or to do service to a man in need; not for his own but 
for his cause to whom he does it. 

Great Grace is when the need is great; or when they are 
hard or difficult things that are conferred, or when the time 
is seasonable, or when he that confers the favour is the only, 
or the first man that did it. 

x 2 


308 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book 11 


Need, is a desire joyned with grief for the absence of the 
thing desired, 

Grace therefore it is not, if it be not done to one that needs. 

‘Whosoever therefore would prove that he has done a Grace, 
or Favour, must shew that he needeth it to whom it was done. 

Grace it is not, 

Which is done by Chance. 

Nor which is done by Necessity. 

Nor which has been Requited. 

Nor that which is done to ones Enemy, 

Nor that which is a Trifle. 

Nor that which is Nought, if the Giver know the fault, 

And in this manner a man may go over the Preedicaments, 
and examine a benefit, whether it be a Grace for being This, 
or for being so Much, or for being Such, or for being Wow, ete. 


CHAP, X, 
Of Pity, or Compassion, 


PITY is a perturbation of the mind, arising from the appre- 
hension of hurt or trouble to another that doth not deserve it. 
- and which he thinks may happen to himself, or his. 

And because it appertains to Pity, to think that he, or his 
may fall into the misery he pities in others, it follows that 
they be most compassionate, 

Who have passed through Misery, 

And old Men. 

And weak Men. 

And timorous Men. 

And learned Men. 

And such as have Parents, Wife, and Children. 

And such as think there be honest Men. 

And that they are less compassionate, 

Who are in great despair. 

Who are in great prosperity. 

And they that are angry; for they consider not. 

And they that are very confident ; for they also consider nov. 

And they that are in the Act of contumely ; for neither do 
these consider. 

And they that are astonished with fear, 


CHAP. X1.] ART OF RHETORICK. 3095 


And they that think no Man honest. 
The things to be pztied are, 

Such as grieve, and withal hurt. 

Such as destroy. 

And Calamities of fortune, if they be great; as none or few 
friends, deformity, weakness, lameness, etc. 

And evil that arrives where good is expected. 

And after extream evil, a little good. . 

And through a Mans life to have no good offer it self; or 
being offered, not to have been able to enjoy it. 

Men to be pitied are, 

Such as are known to us, unless they be so near to us, a 
their hurt be our own. 

And such as be of our own years. 

Such as are like us in manners. 

Such as are of the same, or like’stock. 

And our equals in dignity. 

Those that have lately suffered, or are shortly to suffer in- 
jury: and those that have the marks of injury past. 

And those that have the words or actions of them in the 
present misery. 


CHAP XI. 
Of Indignation. 


OpposiTE in a manner to Pity in good Men, is Indignation, 
which is grief for the prosperity of a Man unworthy. 

With Indignation there is always joyned a joy for the pros- 
perity of a Man worthy, as Pity is always with contentment 

n the adversity of them that deserve it. 
In wicked Men the opposite of Pity is, 

Envy; as also the companions thereof delight in the harm of 
others, which the Greeks in one word have called ἐπικαιρεκακία. 
But of these in the next Chapter. 

Men conceive Jndignation against others, not for their ver- 
tues, as Justice, etc. 

For these make Men worthy ; and in Indignation we think 
Men unworthy. 

But for those goods which men indued with vertue, and 
noble Men, and handsome Men are worthy of. 


310 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book mu. 


And for newly gotten power and riches, rather than for 
antient, and especially if by these he has gotten other goods, 
as by Riches, Command. The reason why we conceive greater 
Indignation against new than antient Riches, is, that the for- 
mer seem to possess that which is none of theirs. But the 
antient seem to have but their own. For with common peo- 
ple, to have been so long, is to be so by Right. 

And for the bestowing of goods incongruously: as when 
the arms of the most valiant Achilles were bestowed on the 
most eloquent Ulysses. 

And for the comparison of the inferiour is the same thing, 
as when one valiant is compared with a more valiant; or whe- 
ther absolutely superiour, as when a good Scholer is compared 
with a good Man. 

Apt to Indignation are, 

They that think themselves worthy of the greatest goods, 
and do possess them. 

And they that are good. 

And they that are ambitious. 

And such as think themselves deserve better what another 
possesseth, than he that hath it. 

Least apt to Indignation are, 

Such as are of a poor, servile, and not ambitious Nature. 

Who they are that Rejoyce, or Grieve not, at the adversity 
of him that suffers worthily, and in what occasions may be 
gathered from the contrary of what has been already said. 

Whosoever therefore would turn away the Compassion of 
the Judge, he must make him apt to Indignation; and shew 
that his Adversary is unworthy of the Good, and worthy of 
the Evil which happens to him. 


CHAP. XII. 
Of Envy. 


ENVY 15 grief, for the prosperity of such as our selves, arising 
not from any hurt that we, but from the good that they receive. 
Such as our selves, I call those that are equal to us in blood, 
in age, in abilities, in glory, or in means. 
They are apt to Envy, 
That are within a little of the highest. 


CRAP. XI1.] ART OF RHETORICK, ail 


And those that are extraordinarily honoured for some quality 
that is singular in them, especially Wisdom or good Fortune. 

And such as would be thought wise. 

And such as catch at glory in every action. 

And Men of poor spirits: for every thing appears great to 
them, 

The things which Men Envy in others are, 

Such as bring Glory. 

And goods of Fortune. 

And such things as we desire for our selves. 

And things in the possession whereof we exceed others, or 
they us a little. 

Obnoxious to Envy are, 

Men of our own time, of our own Countrey, of our own age, 

and competitors of our Glory. 
And therefore, 

Those whom we strive with for honour. 

And those that covet the same things that we do. 

And those that get quickly, what we hardly obtain, or not 
at all. 

And those that attain unto, or do the things that turn to our 
reproach, not being done by us. 

And those that possess what we have possessed heretofore. 
So old and decayed Men envy the young and lusty. 

And those that have bestowed little, are subject to be ev- 
vyed by such as have bestowed much upon the same thing. 

From the contraries of these may be derived the Principles 
concerning Joy for other Mens hurt. 

He therefore that would not have his Enemy prevail, when 
he craves Pity, or other favour; must dispose the Judge to 
Envy; and make his Adversary appear such, as above de- 
scribed, to be subject to the Envy of others. 


CHAP. XIII. 
Of Emulation. 


EMULATION is καὶ ἰοῦ arising from that our Equals possess 
such goods as are had in honour, and whereof we are capable, 
but have them not; not because they have them, but because 
not we also. 


312 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE | BOOK Σ΄. 


No Man therefore Emulates another in things whereof him- 
self is not capable. 

Apt to Emulate are, 

Such as esteem themselves worthy of more than they have. 

And Young and Magnanimous Men. 

_And such as already possess the goods for which Men are 
honoured: for they measure their worth by their having. 

And those that are esteemed worthy by others. 

And those whose Ancestors, Kindred, Familiars, Nation, 
City, have been eminent for some good, do Emulate others 
for that good. 

Objects of Emulation are, for things; Vertues. 

And things whereby we may profit others. 

And things whereby we may please others. 

For Persons, 

They that possess such things. 

And such as many desire to be friends or bet, ΒΘΒΌΝΣ with, 
or like unto. 

And they whose praises flie abroad. 

The contrary of Emulation is Contempt. 

And they that Emulate such as have the goods aforemen- 
tioned, Contemn such as have them not: and thence it is, that 
Men who live happily enough, unless they have the goods 
which Men honour, are nevertheless Contemned. 


CHAP. XIV. 
Of the Manners of Youth. 


Or Passions we have already spoken. 

We are next to speak of Manners. 

Manners are distinguished by Passions, Habits, Ages, and 
Fortunes. 

What kind of Manners proceed from Passions, and from 
Vertues and Vices (which are Habits), hath been already 
shewed. 

There remains to be spoken of the Manners, that are pe< 
culiar to several Ages and Fortunes. 

The Ages are Youth, Middle-Age, Old-Age. 

And first of Youth. 

Young Men are, 


CHAP. XIV.] ART OF RHETORKICK ᾿ 313 


Violent in their desires. 
Prompt to execute their desires. 
Incontinent. 
Inconstant, easily forsaking what they desired before. 
Longing mightily, and soon satisfied. 

Apt to anger, and in their anger violent: and ready to ex- 
ecute their anger with their hands. 

Lovers of Honour and of Victory more than Money, as 
having not been yet in Want. 

Well natured, as having not been acquainted with much 
malice. 

Full of hope, both because they have not yet been often 
frustrated, and because they have by natural heat that disposi- 
tion that other Ages have by Wine; Youth being a kind of 
natural drunkenness. Besides, hope is of the time to come, 
whereof Youth hath much, but of the time past little. 

Credulous, because not yet often deceived. 

Easily deceived, because full of hope. 

Valiant, because apt to Anger and full of hope; whereof 
this begets confidence, the other keeps off Fear. 

Bashful, because they estimate the Honour of Action by the 
precepts of the Law. 

Magnanimous, because not yet dejected by the misfortunes 
of human life. 

And lovers of Honour more than Profit, because they live . 
more by Custom than by Reason; and by Reason we acquire 
Profit, but Vertue by Custom. 

Lovers of their Friends and Companions. 

Apt to err in the excess, rather than the defect, contrary 
to that precept of Chilon, Ne quid nimis; for they overdo 
every thing: they Love too much, and Hate too much, because 
thinking themselves wise, they are obstinate in the opinion 
they have once delivered. 

Doers of Injury rather for contumely than for Dammage. 

Mercifull, because measuring others by their own innocence, 
they think them better than they be, and therefore less to 
merit what they suffer ; which is a cause of Pity. 

And lovers of Mirth, and by consequence such as love to 
jest at others. 

Jesting is witty Contumely, 


314 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE {Boox πὶ 


CHAP, XV. 
Of the Manners of Old Men. 


Tue Munners of Old Men are in a manner the contraries 
of those of Youth. 

They determine nothing: they do every thing less vehe- 
mently than is fit: they never say they know; but to every 
thing they say, perhaps, and peradventure; which comes to 
pass from that having lived long, they have often mistaken 
and been deceived. 

They are peevish because they interpret every thing to the 
worst. 

And suspicious through Incredulity, and incredulous by 
reason of their Experience. 

They love and hate, as if they meant to continue in neither. 

Are of poor spirits, as having been huntbled by the chances 
of life. 

And covetous, as knowing how easie ’tis to lose, and hard 
to get. 

And timorous, as having been cooled by years. 

And greedy of life: for good things seem greater by the 
want of them. 

And lovers of themselves out of Pusillanimity. 

And seek Profit more than Honour, because they love 
themselves; and Profit is among the goods that are not 
simply good, but good for ones self. 

And without bashfulness, because they despise seeming. 

And hope little; knowing by Experience that many times 
good Counsel has been followed with ill event, and because 
also they be timorous. 

And live by Memory rather than Hope; for Memory is of 
the time past, whereof Old Men have good store. 

And are full of Talk, because they delight in their Memory. 

And Vehement in their anger: but not stout enough to 
execute it. 

They have weak, or no desires ; and thence seem Temperate, 

They are slaves to Gain. 

And live more by reason than Custom; because reason 
leads to Profit, as Custom to that which is Honourable. 


CHAP. XVI.] ART OF RHETORICK. 315 


And do Injury to indammage, and not in Contumely. 

And are mercifull by Compassion, or imagination of the 
same evils in themselves, which is a kind of Infirmity, and not 
Humanity, as in Young Men, proceeding from a good opinion 
of those that suffer Evil. 

And full of complaint, as thinking themselves not far from 
Evil, because of their Infirmity. 

Seeing then that every Man loves such Men, and their 
discourses, which are most agreeable to their own Manners; 
"tis not hard to collect, how the Orator, and his Oration may 
be made acceptable to the Hearer, whether Young or Old. 


CHAP. XVI. 
Of the Manners of Middle-aged Men. 


Toe Manners of Middle-aged Men, are between those of 
Youth, and Old Men, and therefore, 

They neither dare, nor fear too much: but both as is fit. 

They neither believe all; nor reject all; but judge. 

They seek not only what is Honourable, nor only what is 
Profitable ; but both. 

They are neither Covetous, nor Prodigal ; but in the mean. 

They are neither easily Angry; nor yet Stupid: but be- 
tween both. 

They are Valiant, and withal Temperate. 

And in general, whatsoever is divided in Youth, and Old 
Men, is compounded in Middle-age. 

And whereof the Excess, or Defect is in Youth or Old 
Men; the Mediocrity is in those of the Middle-age. 

Middle-age for the Body, I call the time from thirty to five 
and thirty years: for the Mind, the nine and fortieth, or 
thereabouts. 


CHAP. XVII. 


Of the Manners of the Nobility. 


Or Manners that proceed from the several Ages we have 
already spoken. 
Weare next to speak of those that rise from several Fortunes. 


316 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [BOOK I. 


The Manners of the Nobility are, 

To be Ambitious. 

To undervalue their Ancestors Equals. For the goods of 
Fortune seem the more precious for their Antiquity. 

Nobility is the vertue of a Stock. 

And Generosity, is not to degenerate from the vertue of 
his stock. 

For as in Plants, so in the Races of Men, there is a certain 
progress ; and they grow better and better to a certain point : 
and change, viz. Subtil wits into madness ; and staid wits into 
stupidity and blockishness. 


CHAP. XVIII. 
Of the Manners of the Rich. 


RICH Men are Contumelious and Proud. This they have 
from their Riches. For seeing every thing may be had for 
Money, having Money, they think they have all that is good. 

And Effeminate; because they have wherewithal to sub- 
minister to their Lust. 

And Boasters of their Wealth: and speak in high terms 
foolishly. For Men willingly talk of what they love and ad- 
mire; and think others affect the same that they do: and the 
truth j is, all sorts of Men submit to the Rich. 

And think themselves worthy to command, having that by 
which Men attain command. 

And in general, they have the Manners of Fortunate Fools, 

They do Injury, with intentions not to hurt, but to disgrace ; 
and partly also through Incontinence. 

There is a difference between Mew and <Antient Riches: 
for they that are newly come to Wealth have the same faults 
in a greater degree: for New Riches are a kind of rudeness 
and apprentiship of Riches. 


CHAP. XIX. 


Of the Manners of Men in Power, and of such as prosper. 


THe Manners of Men in Power, are the same, or better than 
those of the Rich. 


CHAP. XIX. | ART OF RHETORICK, 317 


They have a greater sense of Honour than the Rich; and 
their Manners are more Manly. 

They are more Industrious than the Rich~ for Power is 
sustained by Industry. 

They are Grave, but without Austereness: for being in 
place conspicuous, they carry themselves the more modestly ; 
and have a kind of gentle and comely Gravity, which the 
Greeks call σεμνότης. 

When they do Injuries, they do great ones. 

The Manners of Men that prosper, are compounded of the 
Manners of the Nobility, the Hich and those that are in 
Power, for to some of these all Prosperity appertains. 

Prosperity in Children, and goods of the Body, make Men 
desire to exceed others in the goods of Fortune, 

Men that Prosper have this ill, to be more proud and in- 
considerate than others, 

And this good; that they worship God, trusting in him 
for that they find themselves to receive more good than pro- 
ceeds from their Industry. 

The Manners of Poor Men, Obscure Men, Men without 
Power, and Men in Adversity, may be collected from the Con- 
trary of what has been said, 


CHAP. XX. 


Common Places or Principles concerning what May be Done, what 
Has been Done, and what Shall be Done; or of Fact Possible, 
Past, and Future. Also of Great and Little, 


WE have hitherto set down such Principles as are peculiar to 
several kinds of Orations. 

Now we are to speak of such Places as are Common to them 
all; as these, Possible, Done, or Past, Future, Great, Small. 

Possible is that, 

The Contrary whereof is Possible. 

And the like whereof is Possible. 

And than which some harder thing is Possible. 

And the beginning whereof is Possible. 

And the end whereof is Possible. 

And the usual consequent whereof is Possible, 

And whatsoever we desire. 


813 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book nh 


And the beginning whereof is in the power of those whom 
we can either compell or perswade. 

And part whereof is Possible. 

And part of the whole that is Possible. 

And the General if a Particular. 

And a Particular if the General. 

And of Relatives, if one, the other. 

And that which without Art and Industry is Possible, is 
much more so with Art and Industry. 

And that which is Possible to worse, weaker, and unskilfuller 
Men, is much more so to better, stronger, and more skilful. 

The Principles concerning Impossible are the Contraries 
of these. 

That Has been done, 

Than which a harder thing has been done. 

And the consequent whereof has been done. 

And that which being Possible, he =~ a will to, and no- 
thing hindered. 

And that which was Possible to him in his Anger. 

And that which he longed to do. 

And that which was before upon the point of doing. 

And whose antecedent has been done; or that, for which it 
uses to be done. 

And if that, for whose cause we do this, then this. 

The Principles concerning Not done are the Contraries 
of these. 

That Shall be done, 

Which some Man can, and means to do. 

And which some Man can, and desires to do. 

And which is in the way, and upon the point to be done. 

And the antecedents whereof are past. 

And the Motive whereof is past. 

Of Great and Small, More and Less, see chap. vii. book ᾿" 


CHAP. XXL. 
Of Example, Similitude, and Fables. 


Or the Principles both general and special from whence 
Proofs are to be drawn, has been already spoken. 

Now follow the Proofs themselves which are Examples or 
Enthymemes. 


CHAP. χχι. ART OF RHETORICK. 319 


An Example is either an Example properly so ealled (as 
some Action past): or a Similitude (which is called a Para- 
ble): or a Fable (which contains some Action feigned). 

An Example properly so called, is this; Darius came not 
into Greece, till he had first subdued Aigypt. Xerxes also 
conquered Egypt first ; then afterwards crossed the Helles- 
pont. We ought therefore to hinder the King of Persia from 
conquering Aigypt. 

A. Similitude, or Parable, is such as followeth: They who 
choose their Magistrates by Lot, are like them that choose for 
their Champions those on whom the Lot shall fall, rather than 
those who have the greatest strength; and for their Pilot, not 
him that hath skill ; but him whose name is drawn out of the 
Urne. 

A Fable is in this manner. The Horse desiring to drive 
out the Stag from his common pasture, took a Man to assist 
him, and having received into his mouth a Bridle, and a Rider 
upon his Back, obtained his intent, but became subject to the 
Man. So you of Himera, having (in hope to be revenged of 
your Enemies) given unto Phalaris Soveraign Authority, that 
is to say, taken a Bridle into your Mouths ; tf you shall also 
give him a Guard to his Person, that is, let him get up upon 
your Backs, you become his slaves presently past recovery. 

To find out Examples, that is, Actions done that may serve 
our purpose, is therefore hard, because not in our power. 

But to find Fables and Similitudes, is easier ; because by 
conversing in Philosophy, a Man may feign somewhat in na- 
ture like to the case in hand. 

Examples, Similitudes, and Fables, where Enthymemes are 
wanting, may serve us in the beginning of an Oration for In- 
ductions ; otherwise are to be alledged after Enthymemes for 
Testimonies. 


CHAP. XXII. 


Of a Sentence, 


A SENTENCE is an universal Proposition concerning 
those things which are to be desired or avoided, in the Actions 
or Passions of the common life. As, 

A wise Man will not suffer his Children to be over-learned. 


320 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE {BOOK 1. 


And is to an Enthymeme in Ithetorick, as any Proposition 
is to a Syllogisme in Logick. 

And therefore a Sentence, if the reason be rendered, be- 
comes a Conclusion, and both together make an Enthymeme 

As for Example, 

To be over-learned, besides that it begets effeminacy, pro- 
cures envy. Therefore he that’s wise will not suffer his Chil- 
dren to be over-learned. 

Of Sentences there be four sorts. 

For they either require Proofs, or not: that is, are mani 
fest, or not. 

Such as are manifest, are either so, as soon as they are αὖ’ 
tered ; as, 

Health is a great good. 

Or as soon as they are considered ; as, 

Men used to hate whom they have hurt. 

Such as are not manifest, are either Conclusions of Enthy- 
memes; as, 

He that’s wise will not suffer his Children, ete. 

Or else are Enthymematical; that is, have in themselves 
the force of an Enthymeme; as, 

Mortal Men ought not to carry Immortal Anger. 

A Sentence not Manifest, ought to be either Inferred or 
Confirmed. 

Inferred thus : 

’Tis not good to be effeminately minded, nor to be envyed 
by ones fellow Citizens. A wise Man therefore will not have 
his Children over-learned. 

Confirmed thus : 

A wise Man will not have his Children over-learned, seeing 
too much Learning both softens a Mans mind, and procures 
him envy among his fellow Citizens. 

If a reason be added to a manifest Sentence let it be short. 

Sentences become not every Man; but only old Men, and 
such as be well versed in business. For to hear a young Man 
speak Sentences, is ridiculous; and to hear an ignorant Man 
speak Sentences, is absurd. 

Sentences generally received, when they are for our pur- 
pose, ought not to be neglected, because they pass for truths. 
And yet they may be denyed, when any laudable custom, or 
humour may thereby be made appear in the Denyer. 


CHAP Xxut.] ART OF RHETORICK. 321 


The commodities of Sentences, are two. 

One proceeding from the Vanity of the Hearer, who takes 
for true universally affirmed, that which he has found for true 
only in some particular; and therefore a Man ought to con- 
sider in every thing what opinion the Hearer holds. 

Another is, that Sentences do discover the manners and 
disposition of the speaker; so that if they be esteemed good . 
Sentences, he shall be esteemed a good Man; and if evil, an 
evil Man. 

Thus much of Sentences, what they be ; of how many sorts ; 
how to be used; whom they become ; and what is their profit. 


CHAP. XXIII. 
Of the Invention of Enthymemes. 


SEEING an Enthymeme differs from a Logical Syllogisme, in 
that it neither concludes out of every thing, nor out of re- 
mote Principles; the Places of it, from whence a Man may 
argue, ought to be certain, and determinate. 

And because whosoever makes a Syllogisme Rhetorical, or 
other, should know all, or the most part of that which is in 
question; as, whosoever is to advise the Athenians in the 
question, whether they are to make War or no, must know 
what their Revenues be; what, and what kind of power they - 
have: and he that will praise them, must know their acts at 
Salamis, Marathon, etc. It will be necessary for a good 
speaker to have in readiness the choicest particulars of what- 
soever he foresees he may speak of. 

He that is to speak ex tempore, must comprehend in his 
speech as much as he can of what is most proper in the mat- 
ter in hand. 

Proper, I call those things which are least common to others ; 
as, he that will praise Achilles, is not to declare such things 
as are common both to him, and Diomedes; as that he was a 
Prince, and warred against the Trojans; but such things as 
are proper only to Achilles; as that he killed Hector and 
Cygnus; went to the War young, and voluntary. 

Let this therefore be one general Place, from that which is 


proper. 


y 


322 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE | BOOK 


CHAP. XXIV. 
Of the Places of Enthymemes Ostenswve. 


ForasmucH as Enthymemes either infer truly, or seem only 
so to do; and they which do infer indeed, be either Ostensive; 
or such as bring a man to some impossibility ; we will first 
set down the Places of Enthymemes Ostensive. 

An Ostensive Enthymeme is, wherein a man concludes the 
question from somewhat granted. 

That Enthymeme which brings a Man to an impossibility, 
is an Enthymeme wherein from that which the Adversary 
maintaineth, we conclude that which is manifestly impossible. 

All Places have been already set down in a manner in the 
precedent Propositions of Good, Evil, Just, Unjust, Honour- 
able, and Dishonourable: namely, they have been set down as 
applyed to Particular Subjects, or in Conerete. 

Here they are to be set down in another manner; namely 
in the Abstract or Universal. 

The first Place then let be from Contraries, which in the 
Concrete or Particulars is exemplified thus. Jf Intemperance 
be hurtful, Temperance is profitable: and if Intemperance be 
not hurtful, neither is Temperance profitable. 

Another Place may be from Cognomination or affinity of. 
words: as in this Particular. Jf what is Just be Good; 
then what is justly ts well: but justly to die ts not well: there- 
fore not all that is Just is Good. 

A third from Relatives; as, This Man has justly done, 
therefore the other has justly suffered. But this Place some- 
times deceives, for a man may suffer justly, yet not from him. 

A fourth from Comparison, three ways. 

From the Great to the Less; as, He has stricken his Father; 
and therefore this Man. 

From the Less to the Greater: as, The Gods know not all 
things; much less Man. 

From Equality: as, If Captains be not always the worse 
esteemed for losing a Victory; why should Sophisters ? 

Another from the Time: as Philip to the Thebans: If I 
had required to pass through your Country with my Army, 
before I had ayded you against the Phoceans, there ts no 


CHAP. XXIV. ] ART OF RHETORICK. 323 


᾿ς doubt but you would have promised it me. It is absurd there- 
fore to deny it me now, after I have trusted you. 

A sixth from what the Adversary says of himself: as, 
Iphicrates asked Aristophon, whether he would take a Bribe 
to betray the Army; and he answering no; What (say he) 
is it likely that Iphicrates would betray the Army; and Aris- 
tophon not? 

This Place would be ridiculous, where the Defendant were 
not in much more estimation than the Accuser. 

A seventh from the Definition ; as that of Socrates; a Spi- 
vit is either God, or the Creature of God: and therefore 
he denies not that there is a God, that confesses there are 
Spirtts. 

An eighth from the distinction of an ambiguous word. 

A ninth from Division: as, If all Men do what they do for 
one of three causes, whereof two are impossible ; and the Ac- 
cuser charge not the Defendant with the third ; it follows that 
he has not done tt. 

A tenth from Induction: as, At Athens, at Thebes, at 
Sparta, ete. And therefore every where. 

An eleventh from Authority, or precedent sentence ; as that 
of Sappho, that Death is evil, for that the Gods have judged tt 
so, in exempting themselves from mortality. 

A twelfth from the Consequence: as,’Tis not good to be 
envied ; therefore neither to be learned. ’ Tis good to be wise, 
therefore also to be instructed. 

A thirteenth from two contrary Consequences ; as,’ Tis not 
good to be an Orator, because if he speak the truth, he shall 
displease Men: If he speak falsely, he shall displease God. 

Here is to be noted, that sometimes this argument may be 
retorted : as thus, If you speak truth, you shall please God ; if 
you speak untruth, you shall please men: therefore by all 
means be an Orator. 

A Fourteenth from the guatity that Men have to praise one 
thing, and approve another: as, We ought not to war against 
the Athenians upon no precedent injury ; for all Men discom- 
mend injustice. Again, We ought to war against the Athenians; 
for otherwise our Liberty is at their mercy, that is, is no Liberty ; 
but the preservation of Liberty is a thing that all Men will 
approve. . 

A Fifteenth from Propertion: as, seeing we naturalize 


324 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book ἢ 


strangers for their vertues, why should we not banish this 
stranger for his vices ? 

A Sixteenth from the similitude of Consequents: as, He that 
denies the immortality of the Gods, is no worse than he that has 
written the generation of the Gods. For the same Consequence 
follows of both, that sometimes there are none. 

A Seventeenth from that, that Men change their mind: as, - 
If when we were in Banishment, we fought to recover our 
Country, why should we not fight now to retain it? 

An Eighteenth from a fained end: as, that Diomedes chose 
Ulysses to go with him, not as more valiant than another ; but 
as one that would partake less of the Glory. 

A Nineteenth from the Cause; as if he would infer he did 
it from this, that he had Cause to do τέ. 

A Twentieth from that which is Incredible, but True: as, 
that Laws may need a Law to mend them; as well as Fish 
bred in the salt Water, may need salting. 


‘CHAP, XXV. 
Of the Places of Enthymemes that lead to Impossibility. 


Let the first Place be from inspection of Times, Actions, or 
Words, either of the Adversary, or of the Speaker, or both. 
Of the Adversary; as, He says, he loves the People, and yet 
he was in the Conspiracy of the Thirty. Of the Speaker; as, 
He says, I am contentious, and yet I never began Suit. Of 
both ; as, He never conferred any thing to the benefit of the 
Commonwealth, whereas I have ransomed divers Citizens with 
mine own Money. 

A Second, from shewing the cause of that which seemed 
amiss, and serves for Men of good reputation that are ac- 
cused; as, The Mother that was accused of Incest for being 
seen embracing her Son, was absolved as soon as she made 
appear, that she embraced him upon his arrival from far, by 
way of Salutation. 

A Third, from rendring of the cause; as, Leodamas, t 
whom it was objected, that he had, under the Thirty Tyrants, 
defaced the Inscription (which the People had set up in a 
Pillar) of his Ignominy ; answered, He had not done it; be- 
cause it would have been more to his commodity to let it stand; 


CHAP XXVI.] ART OF RHETORICK. 323 


thereby to indear himself to the Tyrants, by the Testimony of 
the Peoples hatred. 

A Fourth, from better Counsel; as, He might have done 

better for himself; therefore he did not this. But this Place 
deceives, when the better Counsel comes to mind after the 
Fact. 
ΠΑ Fifth, from Incompatibility of the things to be done ; as, 
They that did deliberate whether they should both mourn and 
sacrifice at the Funeral of Leucothea, were told, that if they 
thought her a Goddess, they ought not to Mourn; and if they 
thought her a Mortal, they ought not to Sacrifice. 

A Sixth, (which is proper to Judicial Orations,) from an 
Inference of Errour; as, If he did it not, he was not wise, 
therefore he did it}. 

Enthymemes that lead to Impossibility, please more than 
Ostensive: for they compare, and put contraries together, 
whereby they are the better set off, and more conspicuous to 
the Auditor. 

Of all Enthymemes, they be best, which we assent to as 
soon as hear. For such consent pleaseth us; and makes us 
favourable to the Speaker. 


CHAP. XXVI. 
Of the Places of seeming Enthymemes. 


Or seeming Enthymemes, one Place may be from the Form of 
speaking ; as when a Man has repeated divers Sentences, he 
brings in his Conclusion, as if it followed necessarily, though 
it do not. 

A Second from an ambiguous word. 

A Third from that which is true divided, to that which is 
false joyned ; as that of Orestes, It was justice that I should 
revenge my Fathers death, and it was justice my Mother should 
die for killing my Father, therefore I justly killed my Mother. 
Or from that which zs true joyned, to that which is false 


1 Aristotle mentions a seventh element, derivable from puns upon 
words. This however our analyst entirely overlooks; from the con- 
sideration probably that it could contribute but little to the argumentative 
strength of an oration ; or because it may be applied no less to confirma- 
tion than to refutation. 


326 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [BOOK 11. 


divided: as, one cup of Wine, and one cup of Wine, are 
hurtful; therefore‘one cup of Wine is hurtful. 

A Fourth from Amplification of the Crime. For neither is 
the Defendant likely to have committed the Crime he ampli- 
fies; nor does: the Acecuser seem, when he is passionate, to 
want ground for his Accusation. 

A Fifth from signs; as, when a Man concludes the doing of 
the Fact from the manner of his life. 

A Sixth from that which comes by chance, as if from this, 
that the Tyranny of Hipparchus came to be overthrown from 
the love of Aristogeiton to Harmodius, a Man should conclude, 
that in a free Common-wealth loving of Boys were profitable. 

A Seventh from the Consequence, as Banishment is to be 
desired, because a banished Man has choice of places to dwell in. 

An Eighth from making that the cause which is not; as, In 
Demosthenes his Government, the War began; therefore De- 
mosthenes governed well. With the Pelponnesian War be: 
gan the Plague, therefore Pericles that perswaded that War, 
did ill. 

A Ninth from the Omission of some circumstance, as, 
Helen did what was lawful, when she ran away with Paris, 
because she had her Father’s consent to choose her own Hus- 
band; which was true only during the time that she had not 
chosen. 

A Tenth, from that which is probable in some case, to that 
which is probable simply; as,’ Tis probable, he foresaw, that if 
he did it, he should be suspected; therefore ’tis probable he did 
tt not. 

From this Place one may infer both ways that he did it not. 
For if he be not likely to do it, it may be thought he did it not, 
again, if he were likely to do it, it may be thought he did tt not, 
for this, that he knew he should be suspected. 

Upon this Place was grounded the Art, which was so much 
detested in Protagoras, of making the better cause seem the 
worse ; and the worse the better. 


CHAP. XXV}..} ART OF RHETORICK. 327 


CHAP. XXVII. 
Of the Wayes to answer the Arguments of the Adversary. 


An Argument is answered by an opposite Syllogisme, or by an 
Objection. 

The Places of opposite Syllogismes are the same with the 
Places of Syllogismes, or Enthymemes: for a Rhetorical Syl- 
logisme is an Enthymeme. 

The Places cf Objections are four. 

First, from the same, as, To the Adversary that proves 
love to be good by an Enthymeme, may be objected, that no 
want is good, and yet Love is want; or particularly thus: The 
Love of Myrrha to her Father was not good. 

The Second from Contraries: as, if the Adversary say, A 
good Man does good to his friends, an Objection might be 
made, that then an evil Man will do also evil to his friends. 

The Third from Stmilitude: as thus, if the Adversary say, 
all Men that are injured, do hate those that have injured them, 
it may be objected, that then, all Men that had received Bene- 
fits should love their Benefactors, that is to say, be grateful. 

The Fourth from the authority of famous men; as when a 
Man shall say, that drunken Men ought to be pardoned those 
Acts they do in their drunkenness, because they know not 
what they do; the Objection may be, that Pittacus was of an-. 
other mind, that appointed for such Acts a double punishment; 
one for the Act, another for the Drunkenness. 

And forasmuch as all Enthymemes are drawn from Proba- 
bility, or Example, or from a Sign Fallible, or from a Sign 
Infallible: an Enthymeme from Probability may be confuted 
really, by shewing that for the most part it falls out other- 
wise ; but apparently or sophistically, by shewing only that it 
does not fall out so alwayes ; whereupon the Judge thinks the 
Probability not sufficient to ground his Sentence upon. ᾿Ὁ 

(The Reason whereof is this, That the Judge, while he 

hears the Fact proved probable, conceives it as true. For 
the Understanding has no Object but Truth. And 
therefore by and by, when he shall hear an Instance to 
the contrary ; and thereby find that he had no necessity 
to think it ¢rwe, presently changes his opinion, and thinks 
it false, and consequently not so much as probable. For 


328 THE ART OF RHETORICK. [Book 11 


he cannot at one time think the same thing both probable 
and false: and he that says a thing is probable, the 
meaning is, he thinks it ¢rwe, but finds not arguments 
enough to prove it. | 

An Enthymeme from a fallible sign, is answered, by shew- 
ing the sign to be fallible. 

An Enthymeme from an Example, is answered, as an En- 
thymeme from Probability; really, by shewing more Exam- 
ples to the contrary; apparently, if he bring Examples 
enough to make it seem not necessary. 

If the Adversary have more Examples than we, we must 
make appear that they are not applycable to the Case. 

An Enthymeme from an wfallible sign, if the Proposition 
be true, is unanswerable. 


CHAP. XXVIII. 


Amplification and Extenuation are not Common Places. Enthymemes 
by which Arguments are answered, are the same with those by 
which the Matter in question is proved, or disproved. Objections 
are not Enthymemes. 


Tue first, that Amplification and Extenuation are not Com- 
mon Places, appears by this, that Amplification and Extenu- 
ation do prove a fact to be great, or little; and are therefore 
Enthymemes, to be drawn from Common Places, and therefore 
are not the Places themselves. 

The second, that Enthymemes, by which Arguments are 
answered, are of the same kind with those by which the mat- 
ter in question is proved, is manifest by this, that these infer 
the opposite of what was proved by the other. 

The third, that an Objection is no Enthymeme, is apparent 
by this, that an Objection is no more but an Opinion, Exame 
ple, or other Instance, produced to make appear, that the Ad- 
versaries Argument does not conclude. 

Thus much of Examples, Sentences, Enthymemes, and ge- 
nerally of all things that belong to Argumentation; from what 
Places they may be drawn, or answered. 

There remains Elocution and Disposition to be spoken of 
in the next Book. 


BOOK III. 


CHAP. I. 
Of the Original of Elocution and Pronuntiation. 


THREE things being necessary to an Oration, namely, Proof, 
Elocution, and Disposition ; we have done with the first, and 
shall speak of the other two in that which follows. 

As for Action, or Pronuntiation, so much as is necessary 
for an Orator, may be fetcht out of the Book of the Art of 
Poetry, in which we have treated of the Action of the Stage. 

For Tragedians were the first that invented such Action, 
and that but of late; and it consisteth in governing well the 
magnitude, tone, and measure of the Voice; a thing less sub- 
ject to Art, than is either Proof, or Elocution. 

And yet there have been Rules delivered concerning it, as 
far forth as serve for Poetry. 

But Oratorical Action has not been hitherto reduced to Art. 

And Orators in the beginning, when they saw that the 
Poets in barren and feigned Arguments, nevertheless attained 
great Reputation ; supposing it had proceeded from the choice, 
or connexion of words, fell into a Stile, by imitation of them, 
approaching to Verse, and made choice of words. 

But when the Poets changed their Stile, and laid by all 
words that were not in common use, the Orators did the same, 
and lighted at last upon words, and a Government of the 
Voice and Measures proper to themselves. 

Seeing therefore Pronuntiation, or Action are in some de- 
gree necessary also for an Orator, the Precepts thereof are 
to be fetcht from the Art of Poetry. 

[In the mean time this may be one general rule. If the 
Words, Tone, Greatness of the Voice, Gesture of the 
Body and Countenance, seem to proceed all from one 
Passion, then ’tis well pronounced. Otherwise not. 


330 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [spook m, 


For when there appear more passions than one at once, 
the mind of the Speaker appears unnatural and dis- 
tracted. Otherwise, as the mind of the Speaker, so the 
mind of the Hearer always. | 


CHAP. II. 
Of the Choice of Words and Epithets. 


Tue Vertues of a Word are two ; the first, that it be perspicu- 
ous; the second, that it be decent ; that is, neither above, nor 
below the thing signified ; or, neither too humble, nor too fine. 

Perspicuous are all Words that be Proper. 

Fine Words are those, that are borrowed, or Translated 
from other significations ; of which in the Art of Poetry. 

The reason why borrowed Words please, is this. Men are 
affected with Words, as they are with Bi admiring in both 
that which is Forraign and WVew. 

To make a Poem graceful, many thins help; but few an 
Oration. 

For to a Poet it sufficeth with what Words he can set out 
his Poem: but an Orator must not only do that; but also 
seem not to do it: for else he will be thought to speak un- 
naturally, and not as he thinks; and thereby be the less 
believed ; whereas belief’ is the scope of his Oration. 

The Words that an Orator ought to use are of three sorts. 
Proper; such as are Received ; and Metaphors. 

Words taken from Forraign Languages, Words compounded, 
and Words new coyned, are seldom to be used. 

Synonimaes belong to Poets, and Equivocal Words to 
Sophisters. 

An Orator, if he use Proper Words, and Received, and 
good Metaphors, shall both make his Oration beautiful, and 
not seem to intend it; and shall speak perspicuously. For in 
a Metaphor alone there i is Perspicuity, Novity, and Sweetness. 

Concerning Metaphors the Rules are these. 

1. He that will make the best of a thing, let him draw his 
Metaphor from somewhat that is better. As for Example, 
let him call a Crime, an Error. On the other side, when he 
would make the worst of it, let him draw his Metaphor from 
somewhat worse, as, calling Error, Crime. 


CHAP. 11. ART OF RHETORICK. 331 


2. A Metaphor ought not to be so far fetcht, as that the 
Similitude may not easily appear. 

3. A Metaphor ought to be drawn from the noblest things, 
as the Poets do that choose rather to say, Rosy-fingered, 
than Red-fingered Aurora. 

In like manner the Rule of Epithets is, 

That he that will adorn, should use those of the Detter sort ; 
and he that will disgrace, should use those of the worse: as 
Simonides being to Write an Ode in honour of the Victory 
gotten in a Course by certain Mules, being not well paid, called 
them by their name [‘Hycdvove | that signifies their propinquity 
to Asses: but having received a greater reward, stiles them 
the Sons of swift-footed Coursers. 


CHAP. III. 
Of the Things that make an Oration Flat. 


TuE things that make an Oration flat or insipide, are four. 

1. Words Compounded ; [and yet a Man may Compound 
a word, when the Composition is necessary, for want of a 
simple word; and easie, and seldom used. | 

2. Forraign Words. As for Example, such as are newhy 
derived from the Latine; which though they were proper 
among them whose tongue it is, are Forraign in another Lan- 
guage: and yet these may be used, so it be moderately. 

3. Long, impertinent, and often Epithets. 

4. Metaphors, indecent, and obscure. Obscure they are, 
when they are far fetcht. Indecent when they are ridiculous, 
as in Comedies ; or too grave, as in Tragedies. 


CHAP. IV. 
Of a Similitude, 


A SIMILITUDE differs from a Metaphor only by such Par- 
ticles of Comparison as these, As; Even as; So; Even so, ete, 
A Similitude therefore is a Metaphor dilated ; and a Meta- 
phor is a Similitude Contracted into one Word. 
A Similitude does well in ar Oration, so it be not too fre- 
quent ; for ’tis Poetical. 


332 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book In 


“An Example of a Similitude, is this of Pericles; that said 
in his Oration, that the Beotians were like to so many Oaks 
tn a Wood, that did nothing but beat one another. 


CHAP. V. 
Of the Purity of Language. 


Four things are necessary to make Language Pure. 

1. The right rendring of those Particles which some ante- 
cedent Particle does require: as to a Wot only, a Not also; 
and then they are rendered right, when they are not suse 
pended too long. 

2. The use of proper Words, rather than Circumlocutions, 
unless there be motive to make one do it of purpose. 

3. That there be nothing of double construction, unless 
there be cause to do it of purpose. As the Prophets (of the 
Heathen) who speak in general terms, to the end they may 
the better maintain the truth of their Prophesies ; which is 
easier maintained in generals, than in particulars. For ’tis 
easier to divine, whether a number be even or odd, than how 
many ; and that a thing will be, than what ἐξ will be. 

4. Concordance of Gender, Number, and Person; as not to 
say Him for Her; Man for Men; Hath for Have. 

In Summ; a Man’s Language ought to be easie for another 
to read, pronounce, and point. 

Besides, to divers Antecedents, let divers Relatives, or one 
common to them all, be correspondent: as, He saw the 
Colour; He heard the Sound; or He perceived both Colour 
and Sound ; but by no means, He heard or saw both. 

Lastly, that which is to be interposed by Parenthesis, let it 
be done quickly: as, I purposed, having spoken to him (to this, 
and this purpose) afterward to be gone. For to put it off 
thus: I resolved, after I had spoken to him, to be gone ; but 
the subject of my speech was to this and this purpose, is vitious, 


CHAP. VI. 
Of the Amplitude and Tenuity of Language. 
A MAN shall add Amplitude, or Dignity to his Language, but 


by such means as these. 
1, By changing the ‘Vame with the Definition, as occasion 


CHAP. VII. ] ART OF RHETORICK. 333 


shall serve. As when the Name shall be indecent, by using 
the Definition ; or Contrary. 

2. By Metaphors. 

8. By using the plural number for the singular. 

4, By privative Epithets. 


CHAP. VII. 
Of the Convenience or Decency of Elocution. 


ELOCUTIONS are made Decent, 

1. By speaking feelingly ; that is, with such Passion as is 
fit for the matter he is in; as Angerly in matter of Injury. 

2. By speaking as becomes the Person of the Speaker; as 
for a Gentleman to speak eruditely. 

3. By speaking proportionably to the matter; as of great 
affairs to speak in a high; and of mean, in a low Stile. 

4, By abstaining from Compounded, and from Outlandish 
words ; unless a Man speak passionately, and have already 
moved, and, as it were, inebriated his Hearers. Or Ironically. 

It confers also to perswasion very much, to use these ordin- 
ary Forms of speaking, All men know; ’ Tis confessed by all ; 
No Man will deny, and the like. For the Hearer consents, 
surprized with the fear to be esteemed the only Ignorant Man. 

’Tis good also, having used a word that signifies more than 
the matter requires, to abstain from the Pronunciation and 
Countenance that to such a word belongs: that the Dispro- 
portion between it and the matter may the less appear. And 
when a Man has said too much, it will shew well to correct 
himself: for he will get belief by seeming to consider what 
he says. 

[But in this a Man must have a care not to be too precise 
in shewing of this Consideration. For the ostentation of 
Carefulness is an argument oftentimes of lying; as may be 
observed in such as tell particularities not easily observed, 
when they would be thought to speak more precise truth than 
is required. } . 


334 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE | BOOK Ik 


CHAP. VIII'. 
Of two Sorts of Stiles. 


THERE be two sorts of Stiles. 

The one continued or to be comprehended at once; the 
other divided, or distinguished by Periods. 

The first sort was in use with antient Writers: but is now 
out of date. 

An Example of this Stile is in the History of Herodotus ; 
wherein there is no Period till the end of the whole History. 

In the other kind of Stile, that is distinguished by Periods ; 
a Period is such a part as is perfect in it self, and has such 
length as may easily be comprehended by the understanding. 

This later kind is pleasant; the former unpleasant, because 
this appears finite, the other infinite: in this the Hearer has 
always somewhat set out, and terminated to him; in the other 
he fore-sees no end, and has nothing finished to him; this 
may easily be committed to memory, because of the measure 
and cadence (which is the cause that Verses be easily remem- 
bered); the other not. 

Every Sentence ought to end with the period, and nothing 
to be interposed. 

Period is either simple, or divided into Parts. 

Simple is that which is Indivisible; as, I wonder you fear 
not their ends, whose actions you imitate. 

A Period divided, is that which not only has perfection and 
length convenient, for respiration, but also Parts. As, I won- 
der you are not afraid of their ends, seeing you imitate their 
actions: where in these words, I wonder you are not afraid 
of their ends, is one Colon, or Part; and in these, Seeing you 
imitate their actions, another: and both together make the 
Period. 

The parts, or members, and periods of speech ought neither 
to be too long, nor too short. 

Too long are they, which are produced beyond the expect- 
ation of the Hearer. 

Too short are they, that end before he expects it. 


* Hobbes has overlooked Aristotle’s 8th chapter “‘on Rhythm.” 


CHAP. Ix.] ART OF RHETORICK. 335 


Those that be too long, leave the Hearer behind, like him 
that walking, goes beyond the usual end of the Walk, and 
thereby out-goes him that walks with him. 

They that be too short, make the Hearer stumble; for 
when he looks far before him, the end stops him before he be 
aware. 

A period that is divided into parts, is either divided only; 
or has also an Opposition of the Parts one to another. 

Divided only is such as this: This the Senate knows; the 
Consul sees; and yet the Man lives. 

A Period with Opposition of Parts, called also Antithesis, 
and the parts Antitheta, is when contrary parts are put toge- 
ther ; or also joyned by a third. 

Contrary parts are put together, as here, The one has ob- 
tained Glory, the other Riches; both by my benefit. 

Antitheta are therefore acceptable ; because not only the 
parts appear the better for the opposition; but also for that 
they carry with them a certain appearance of that kind of Fz- 
thymeme, which leads to Impossibility. 

Parts, or Members of a Period, are said to be equal, when 
they have altogether, or almost equal Number of Syllables. 

Parts, or Members of a Period, are said to be like, when 
they begin, or end alike: and the more Similitudes, and the 
greater equality there is of Syllables, the more graceful is the 
Period. 


CHAP. IX. 
Of those Things that grace an Oration, and make τέ delightful. 


ForASMUCH as there is nothing more delightful to a Man, 
than to find that he apprehends and learns easily ; it neces- 
sarily follows, that those Words are most grateful to the Ear, 
that make a Man seem to see before his Eyes the things sig- 
nified. 

And therefore Forraign Words are unpleasant, because 
Obscure; and Plain Words, because too Manifest, making us 
learn nothing new: but Metaphors please; for they beget in 
us by the Genus, or some common thing to that with another, 
a kind of Science: as when an Old Man is called Stubble; 
2 Man suddenly learns that he grows up. flourisheth, and 


336 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book 11. 


withers like Grass, being put in mind of it by the qualities 
common to Stubble, and to Old Men. 

That which a Metaphor does, a Similitude does the same ; 
but with less grace, because with more prolixity. 

Such Enthymemes are the most graceful, which neither are 
presently very Manifest, nor yet very hard to be understood}, 
but are comprehended, while they are uttering, or presently 
after, though not understood before. 

The things that make a speech graceful, are these; Anti- 
theta, Metaphors, and Animation. 

Of Antitheta and Antithesis hath been spoken in the prece- 
dent Chapter. 

Of Metaphors the most graceful is that which is drawn from 
Proportion. 

[ Aristotle (in the 12 Chapter of his Poetry) defines a Me- 
taphor to be the translation of a name from one signifi- 
cation to another ; whereof he makes four kinds: 1. From 
the General to the Particular. 2. From the Particular 
to the General. 3. From one Particular to another. 
4. From Proportion. | 

A Metaphor from Proportion is such as this, A State with- 
out Youth, is a Year without a Spring. 

Animation is that expression which makes us seem to see 
the thing before our eyes; as he that said, The Athenians 
poured out their City into Sicily, meaning, they sent thither 
the greatest Army they could make; and this is the greatest 
grace of an Oration. 

If therefore in the same Sentence there concur both Meta- 
phor, and this Animation, and also Antithesis, it cannot choose 
but be very graceful. 

That an Oration is graced by Metaphor, Animation, and 
Antithesis, hath been said: but how ’tis graced, is to be said 
in the next Chapter. 


CHAP. X. 


In what Manner an Oration ts graced by the Things aforesaid. 


*Tis graced by Animation, when the actions of living Crea- 
tures are attributed to things without life; as when the Sword 
is said to devour. 

1 ἐπιπόλαια and ἀγνουμενα 


CHAP. X.] ART OF KHETORICK. 337 


Such Metaphors as these come into a Mans mind by the 
observation of things that have similitude and proportion one 
to another. And the more unlike and unproportionable the 
things be otherwise, the more grace hath the Metaphor. 

A Metaphor without Animation, adds grace then, when the 
Hearer finds he learns somewhat by such use of the word. 

Also Paradoxes are graceful, so Men inwardly do beliere 
them: for they have in them somewhat like to those jests that 
are grounded upon the similitude of words, which have usually 
one sense, and in the present another ; and somewhat like to 
those jests which are grounded upon the deceiving of a Mans 
expectation. 

And Paragrams ; that is, allusions of words are graceful, 
if they be well placed; and in Periods not too long; and with 
Antithesis ; for by these means the ambiguity is taken away. 

And the more of these; namely, Metaphor, Animation, 
Antithesis, Equality of Members, a Period hath, the more 
graceful it is. 

Similitudes grace an Oration, when they contain also a 
Metaphor. 

And Proverbs are graceful, because they are Metaphors, or 
Translations of words from one species to another. 

And Hyperboles, because they also are Metaphors: but 
they are youthful, and bewray vehemence; and are used with 
most grace by them that are angry; and for that cause are 
not comely in Old Men. 


CHAP. XI. 


Of the Difference between the Stile to be used in Writing, and the 
Stile to be used in Pleading, 


Tue Stile that should be Read ought to be more exact and 
accurate. 

But the Sétle of a Pleader ought to be suited to Action and 
Pronuntiation. 

Orations of them that Plead, pass away with the hearing. 

But those that are Written, Men carry about them, and are 
considered at leisure; and consequently must endure to be 
sifted and examined. 

Written Orations appear flat in Pleading. 

Z 


338 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [Book ur 


And Orations made for the Barr, when the Action is away, 
appear in Reading insipide. 

In Written Orations Repetition is justly condemned. 

But in Pleadings, by the help of Action, and by some 
change in the Pleader, Repetition becomes Amplification. 

In Written Orations Disjunctives do ill ; as, I came, I found 
him, I asked him: for they seem superfluous, and but one 
thing, because they are not distinguished by Action. 

But in Pleadings ’tis Amplification ; because that which is 
put one thing, is made to seem many. 

Of Pleadings, that which is Judicial ought to be more ac- 
curate, than that which is before the people. 

And an Oration to the people ought to be more accommodate 
to Action, than a Judicial. 

And of Judicial Orations, that ought to be more accurate, 
which is uttered to few Judges ; and that ought to be more 
accommodate to Action, which is uttered to many. As ina 
Picture, the farther he stands off that beholds it, the less need 
there is that the Colours be fine: so in Orations, the farther 
the Hearer stands off, the less need there is for his Oration to 
be elegant. 

Therefore Demonstrative Orations are most proper for 
Writing, the end whereof is to Read. 


CHAP. XII. 
Of the Parts of an Oration, and thew Order. 


Tue necessary Parts of an Oration are but two; Proposi- 
tions, and Proof; which are as it were the Probleme, and 
Demonstration. 

The Proposition is the explication, or opening of the Mat- 
ter to be proved. 

And Proof is the Demonstration of the Matter propounded. 

To these necessary parts, are sometimes added two other, 
the Proeme and the Epilogue, neither of which are any Proof. 

So that in some there be four parts of an Oration; the 
Proeme, the Proposition, or (as the others call it) the Narra- 
tion, the Proofs, (which contain Confirmation, Confutation, 
Amplification, and Diminution,) and the Epilogue. 


bs Aiea Ppa MGA ται 


cHar. xm1.] ART OF RHETORICK. 339 


CHAP. ΧΙΠ. 
Of the Proeme. 


Tue Proeme is the beginning of an Oration, and, as it were, 
the preparing of the way before one enter into it. 

In some kinds of Orations it resembles the Prelude of Mu- 
sicians, who first play what they list, and afterwards the Tune 
they intended. 

In other kinds it resembles the Prologue of a Play, that 
contains the Argument. 

Proemes of the first sort, are most proper for Demonstrattve 
Orations ; in which a Man is free to foretell, or not, what 
points he will insist upon; and for the most part ‘tis better 
not: because when a Man has not obliged himself to a certain 
matter, Digression will seem Variety: but if he have ingaged 
himself, Variety will be accounted Digression. 

In Demonstratives the matter of the Proeme consisteth in 
the Praise or Dispraise of some Law or Custom, or in Ex- 
hortation, or Dehortation ; or something that serves to incline 
the Hearer to the 

Proemes of the second kind are most proper for Judicial 
Orations. Forasthe Prologue in a Dramatick, and the Ezor- 
dium in an Epique Poem, setteth first in few words the Argu- 
ment of the Poem: so in a Judicial Oration the Orator ought - 
to exhibit a Model of his Oration, that the mind of the Hearer 
may not be suspended, and for want of fore-sight, err or wander. 

Whiatsoever else belongs to a Proeme, is drawn from one 
of these four; From the Speaker, From the Adversary, From 
the Hearer, or from the Matter. 

From the Speaker and Adversary are drawn into Proemes 
such Criminations and Purgations as belong not to the cause. 

To the Defendant ἘΞ necessary in the Proeme to answer to 
the accusations of his Adversary ; that those being cleared, he 
may have a more favourable entrance to the rest of his Oration. 

Bat to the Plaintife ‘tis better to cast his Criminations all 
into the Epilogue, that the Judge may the more easily re- 
member them. 

From the Hearer and from the Matter are drawn into the 
Proeme such things as serve to make the Hearer favourable, 
or angry; attentive, or not attentive, as need shall require. 

Σ 2 


-- 


340 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE [£ooK In. 


And Hearers use to be attentive to persons that are reputed 
good ; to things that are of great Consequence, or that concern 
themselves, or that are strange, or that delight. 

But to make the Hearer attentive, is not the part of the 
Proeme only, but of any other part of the Oration, and rather 
of any other part, than of the Proeme. For the Hearer is 
every where more remiss than in the beginning. And there- 
fore wheresoever there is need, the Orator must make appear 
both the probity of his own person, and that the matter in 
hand is of great Consequence ; or that it concerns the Hearer; 
or that it is mew; or that it is delightful. 

He that will have the Hearer attentive to him, but not to 
the Cause, must on the other side make it seem that the 
matter is a trifle, without relation to the Hearer, common, 
and tedious. 

That the Hearer may be favourable to the Speaker, one of 
two things is required; that he dove him, or that he pity him. 

In Demonstrative Orations, he that praises shall have the 
Hearer favourable if he think himself, or his own manners, 
or course of life, or any thing he loves, comprehended in the 
same praise. 

On the contrary, he that dispraises, shall be heard favour- 
ably, if the Hearer find his Enemies, or their courses, or any 
thing he hates, involved in the same dispraise. 

The Proeme of a Deliberative Oration is taken from the 
same things, from which are taken the Proemes of Judicial 
Orations. For the matter of a Deliberative Oration needeth 
not that natural Proeme, by which is shewn what we are to 
speak of; for that is already known: the Proeme in these, 
being made only for the Speakers, or Adversaries sake; or to 
make the Matter appear great, or little, as one would have it, 
and is therefore to be taken from the persons of .the Plaintif 
or Defendant ; or from the Hearer, or from the Matter, as in 
Orations Judicial. 


CHAP. XIV. 
Places of Crimination, and Purgation. 


1. One is from the removal of ill Opinion in the Hearer, 
imprinted in him by the Adversary, or otherwise. 
2. Another from this, That the thing done is not hurtful, 


CHAP. XIv.| ART OF RHETORICK. 34} 


or not to him, or not so much, or not unjust, or not great, or 
not dishonourable. 

3. A third from the Recompence, as, I did him harm, but 
withal I did him honour. 

4. A fourth from the Excuse; as, It was Errour, Mis- 
chance, or Constraint. 

5. A fifth from the Intention; as, One thing was done, 
another meant. 

6. A sixth from the Comprehension of the Accuser; as, 
What I have done, the Accuser has done the same; or his 
Father, Kinsman, or Friend. 

7. From the Comprehension of those that are in Reputa- 
tion; as, What I did, such and such have done the same, 
who nevertheless are good Men. 

8. From Comparison with such as have been falsely accused, 
or wrongfully suspected, and nevertheless found upright. 

9. From Recrimination ; as, The Accuser is a man of ill 
life, and therefore not to be believed. 

10. From that the Judgment belongs to another Place, or 
Time ; as, I have already answered, or am to answer else- 
where to this Matter. 

11. From Crimination of the Crimination ; as, It serves only 
to pervert Judgment. 

12. A twelfth, which is common both to Crimination and 
Purgation, and is taken from some sign; as Teucer is not to 
be believed, because his Mother was Priam’s Sister. On the 
other side, Teucer ts to be believed, because his Father was 
Priam’s Enenwy. 

13. A thirteenth, proper to Crimination only, from praise 
and dispraise mixt: as, 'To praise small things, and blame 
great ones; or to praise in many words, and blame with ef- 
fectual ones ; or to praise many things that are good, and then 
add one evil, but a great one. 

14. A fourteenth, coming both to Crimination and Purga- 
tion, is taken from the interpretation of the fact: for he that 
purgeth himself interpreteth the fact always in the best sense ; 
and he that Criminates, always in the worst ; as when Ulysses 
said, Diomedes chose him for his Companion, as the most able 
of the Grecians, to aid him in his exploit: but his Adversary 
said, He chose him for his cowardice, as the most unlikely to 
share with him in the Honour. 


342 HOBBES’ BRIEF OF THE {BOOK 111. 


CHAP. XV. 
Of the Narration. 


Tue Narration is not always continued and of one Piece; 
but sometimes, as in Demonstratives, interrupted, and dispers- 
ed through the whole Oration. 

For there being in a WVarration something that falls not 
under Art; as namely, the Actions themselves, which the 
Orator inventeth not; he must therefore bring in the JVar- 
ration of them where he best may. As for Example, if being 
to praise a Man, you would make a Narration of all his Acts 
immediately from the beginning, and without interruption, 
you will find it necessary afterwards to repeat the same Acts 
again, while from some of them you praise his Valour, and 
from others his Wisdom: whereby your Oration shall have 
less variety, and shall less please. 

"Tis not necessary always that the Varration be short. 
The true measure of it must be taken from the matter that is 
to be laid open. 

In the Narration, as oft as may be, ’tis good to insert some- 
what commendable in ones self, and blameable in ones Adver- 
sary: As, I advised him but he would take no Counsel. 

In Narrations, ἃ Man is to leave out whatsoever breeds 
compassion, indignation in the Hearer besides the purpose ; 
as Ulysses in Homer, relating his Travels to Alcinous, to 
move compassion in him, is so long in it, that it consists of 
divers Books: but when he comes home, tells the same to his 
Wife in thirty Verses, leaving out what might make her sad. 

The Narration ought also to be in such words as argue the 
Manners; that is, some virtuous or vicious habit in him of 
whom we speak, although it be not exprest; As, setting his 
Arms a kenbold, he answered, etc. by which is insinuated the 
ride of him that so answered. 

In an Oration a Man does better to shew his affection than 
his Judgment: that is, "Tis better to say, I like this; than to 
say, This is better. For by the one you would seem wise, by 
the other good. But Favour follows Goodness; whereas Wis- 
dom procures Envy. 

But if this Affection seem incredible, then either a reason 


CHAP. ΧΥ.] ART OF RHETORICK. 343 


must be rendered, as did Antigone. For when she had said, 
She loved her brother better than her Husband or Children ; 
she added, for Husband and Children I may have more; 
but another Brother I cannot, my Parents being both dead. 
Or else a man must use this form of speaking; I know this 
affection of mine seems strange to you; but nevertheless tt is 
such. For ’tis not easily believed, that any Man has a mind 
to do any thing that is not for his own good. 

Besides in a Narration, not only the Actions themselves ;_ 
but the Passions, and signs that accompany them, are to be 
discovered. 

And in his Narration ἃ Man should make himself and his 
Adversary be considered for such, and such, as soon, and as 
covertly as he can. 

A Narration may have need sometimes not to be in the 
beginning. 

In Deliberative Orations ; that is, where soever the question 
is of things to come; a Narration, which is always of things 
past, has no place: and yet things past may be recounted, that 
Men may deliberate better of the future: But that is not as 
Narration, but Proof; for ’tis Example. 

There may also be Narration in Deliberatives in that part 
where Crimination and Praise come in: But that part is not 
Deliberative, but Demonstrative. 


CHAP. XVI. 
Of Proof, or Confirmation, and Refutation. 


PROOFS are to be applyed to something controverted. 

The Controversie in Judicial Oration is, Whether it has 
been done; whether it has been hurtful; whether the matter 
be so great, and whether it be Just, or no. 

In a question of Fact, one of the Parties of necessity is 
faulty, (for ignorance of the Fact is no excuse,) and therefore 
the Fuct is chiefly to be insisted on. 

In Demonstratives, the Fact for the most part is supposed : 
but the honour and profit of the Fact are to be proved. , 

In Deliberatives, the question is, Whether the thing be like 
to be, or likely to be so great: or whether it be just; or whe- 
ther it be profitable. 

Besides the application of the Proof to the questior, a Man 


311 HOBBES’ BdtEF OF THE [noon 1 


ought to observe, whether his Adversary have lyed in any 
point without the Cause. For ’tis a sign he does the same in 
the Cause. 

The Proofs themselves are either Examples, or Enthymemes. 

A Deliberative Oration, because ’tis of things to come, re- 
quireth rather Examples, than Enthymemes. 

But a Judicial Orution, being of things past, which have a 
necessity in them, and may be concluded syllogistically, re- 
quireth rather Enthymemes. 

Enthymemes ought not to come too thick together, for they 
hinder one anothers force by confounding the Hearer. 

Nor ought a Man to endeavour to prove every thing by 
Enthymeme, least like some Philosophers, he collect what is 
known, from what is less known. 

Nor ought a Man to use Enthymemes, when he would move 
the Hearer to some affection: For seeing divers Motions do 
mutually destroy or weaken one another, he will lose either 
the Enthymeme, or the affection that he would move. 

For the same reason, a Man ought not to use Enthymemes 
when he would express Manners. 

But whether he would move affection, or insinuate his 
Manners, he may withal use Sentences. 

A Deliberative Oration is more difficult than a Judicial, 
because ’tis of the future, whereas a Judicial is of that which 
is past, and that consequently may be known; and because it 
has principles, namely the Law; and it is easier to prove 
from principles, than without. 

Besides, a Deliberative Oration wants those helps of turning 
to the Adversary ; of speaking of himself; of raising passion. 

He therefore that wants matter in a Deliberative Oration, 
let him bring in some person to praise or dispraise. 

And in Demonstratives he that has nothing to say in com- 
mendation or discommendation of the principal party, let him 
praise or dispraise some body else, as his Father, or Kinsman, 
or the very vertues or vices themselves. 

He that wants not Proofs, let him not only prove strongly, 
but also insinuate his Manners: but he that has no Proof, let 
him nevertheless insinuate his Manners. For a good Man 
is as acceptable, as an exact Oration. 

Of Proofs, those that lead to an absurdity, please better 
than those that are direct or ostensive; because from the com- 


CHAP. XVII.] ART OF RHETORICK. 345 


parison of Contraries, namely, Truth and Falsity, the force 
of the Syllogisme does the better appear. 

Confutation is also a part of Proof. 

And he that speaks first, puts it after his own Proofs, unless 
the Controversie contain many and different matters. And 
he that speaks last, puts it before. 

For ’tis necessary to make way for his own Oration, by 
removing the Objections of him that spake before. For the 
mind abhors both the Man, and his Oration, that is damned 
before hand. 

If a Man desire his Manners should appear well, (least 
speaking of himself he become odious, or troublesome, or 
obnoxious to obtrectation; or speaking of another, he seem 
contumelious, or scurrilous, ) let him introduce another person. 

Last of all, least he cloy his Hearer with Enthymemes, let 
him vary them sometimes with Sentences ; but such as have 
‘the same force. As here is an Enthymeme. If it be then the 
best time to make peace when the best conditions of peace may 
be had, then the time is now, while our Fortune is entire. And 
this is a Sentence of equal force te it. Wise Men make peace, 
while their Fortune is entire. 


CHAP. XVII. 
Of Interrogations, Answers, and Jests. 


THE times wherein ’tis fit to ask ones Adversary a question 
are chiefly four. _ 

1. The first is, when of two Propositions that conclude 
an Absurdity, he has already uttered one; and we would by 
Interrogation draw him to confess the other. 

2. The second, when of two Propositions that conclude an 
Absurdity, one is manifest of it self, and the other likely to 
be fetched out by a question; then the Interrogation will be 
seasonable ; and the absurd Conclusion is presently to be in- 
ferred, without adding that Proposition which is manifest. 

3. The third, when a Man would make appear that his 
Adversary does contradict himself. 

4. The fourth, when a Man would take from his Adversary 
such shifts as these, Jn some sort ‘tis so; In some sort ’tis 
wot 80. 


346 THE ART OF RHETORICK. {BooK It. 


Out of these Cases ’tis not fit to interrogate. For he whose 
question succeeds not, is thought vanquished. 

To equivocal questions a Man ought to answer fully, and 
not to be too brief. 

To Interrogations which we fore-see tend to draw from us 
an Answer, contrary to our purpose, we must, together with 
our Answer, presently give an Answer to the objection which 
is implyed in the Question. 

And where the Question exacteth an Answer that con- 
cludeth against us, we must together with our Answer pre- 
sently distinguish. 

Jests are dissolved by serious and grave discourse: and 
grave discourse is deluded by Jesés. 

The several kinds of Jests are set down in the Art of 
Poetry. 

Whereof one kind is Jronia, and tends to please ones self. 

The other is Scurrility, and tends to please others. 

The latter of these has in it a kind of baseness; the former 
may become a Man of good breeding. 


CHAP. XVIII. 
Of the Peroration. 


Tue Peroration must consist of one of these four things. 

Inclining the Judge to favour yourself, or to disfavour 
your Adversary. For then, when all has been said respecting 
the cause, is the best season to praise, or dispraise the Parties. 

Of Amplification or Diminution. For when it appears 
what is good or evil, then is the time to shew how great, or 
how little that good or evil is. 

Or in moving the Judge to Anger, Love, or other Passion. 
For when it is manifest of what kind, and how great the good 
or evil is, then it will be opportune to excite the Judge. 

Or of Repetition, that the Judge may remember what has 
been said. 

Repetition consisteth in the matter, and the manner. For 
the Orator must shew, that he has performed what he pro- 
mised in the beginning of his Oration, and how: namely, by 
comparing his Arguments one by one with his Adversaries, 
repeating them in the same order they were spoken. 


ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


ON 


ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 


BOOK 1. 
CHAP. I. & IL. 


How many parts of Rhetoric are there? 

On which of these parts, Πίστις, λέξις, or τὰ μέρη τοῦ λόγου, 
does Aristotle lay the greatest stress ? 

Of which of these parts do the first two books treat ? 

Has each species of oration προτάσεις peculiar to itself ? 

Give the Greek specific term for the ἰδίαι προτάσεις. 

Are there προτάσεις common to all the species of oration ? 

Give the specific word in Greek for the προτάσεις κόιναι..- 

Does the first book treat of the εἴδη or τόποι ἢ 

In which book does he treat of the τόποι ὃ 

With what view is the πίστις ἠθικὴ and διὰ τῶν ἀκροατῶν 
previously introduced ? 

Do you consider that these belong peculiarly to the species 
δικανικὸν and συμβουλευτικὸν of orations ? 

With what view has Aristotle previously introduced the 
rac ἠλίκιας and τύχας of men? 

Has he treated of these in reference to all the species of 
oration ? 

How many subaltern genera of the πίστις διὰ τοῦ λογοῦ are 
there ? 

Into how many species is the artificial genus subdivided ? 

When is persuasion effected by τῶ ἤθει τοῦ λέγοντος ὃ 

Should the persuasion effected by this species arise from 
any previous opinion entertained of the speaker ? 


348 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


When is persuasion effected διὰ τῶν ἀκροατῶν ? 

When is it effected ἐν αὐτῶ τῶ λόγω ὃ 

Of the πίστεις διὰ τοῦ δεικνύναι, (or the argument,) how 
many species are there ? 

Which is most persuasive, the παράξειγμα or ἐνθύμημα ? 

Does Rhetoric furnish any instrument of persuasion, διὰ rot ἡ 
δεικνύναι, besides these ἢ 

From what matter necessary, contingent, or impossible, are 
enthymems drawn ? 

Am I to understand that the enthymem is drawn from the 
εἰκός and σημεῖον ὃ 

Can an orator syllogize from premises previously inferred ? 

Is there any objection to this process ? 

What is the objection to premises not previously inferred ? 

If a particular proposition is inferred from an universal, is 
it an εἰκός OF σημεῖον ? 

Of the σημεῖον how many kinds are there? 

You say that one is anonymous, because it has no logical dif- 
ference to fix the species ; mention the logical difference, which, 
when added to the other σημεῖον fixes the species τεκμήριον ? 

Are both these species equally forcible ? 

What is a παράδειγμα ὃ 

Which is of most service in induction, the τεκμήριον or 
παράδειγμα ? 

Is the τεκμήριον used in induction ? 


CHAP. III. 


How many species of orations are there? 

From what premises does Aristotle infer the three species 
of oration ? 

Is the judge of things past a judicial orator or public 
speaker ? 

Does the Θεωρὸς judge merely of the power of an oration, 
or exercise the functions of a judicial orator ? 

Which species of oration is inferred from the ἐκκλησιαστής ? 

Which is inferred from the δικαστής and Oewpdc ? 

Is it the business of the judicial orator to dissuade and 
praise ? 

What are the ra τέλη of the three species of oration ? 

Must a deliberative, judicial, and demonstrative orator bo 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 349 


im possession of προτάσεις on the subjects of each of these 
species ? 

If an orator wished to prove the injustice of Alcibiades’s 
banishment in a judicial court, would the premises of his syl- 
logism be εἴδη of the judicial species, if drawn from the τὰ 
τέλη honour and turpitude ἢ , 

Must a syllogism in the judicial species always be composed 
of εἴδη, or will it ever admit of τόποι ὃ 

When the orator is arguing on the possibility of a fact, are 
his προτάσεις the εἴδη or τόποι ὕ 


CHAP. IV. 


How many chapters are devoted to the εἴδος συμβουλευτικὸν ? 

Does Aristotle make any distinction between the subjects of 
deliberation, and the things from which we deliberate, viz. 
στοιχεῖα and εἴδη ἢ 

Throughout the following treatise does not Aristotle pre- 
mise στοιχεῖα (vide chap. vi. 1) from which the εἴδη and τό- 
ποι, &c. are deduced ? 

In the εἴδος συμβουλευτικὸν are not some the στοιχεῖα and 
εἴδη of happiness and its divisions? (chap. v.) 

Are not others the στοιχεῖα and εἴδη of the τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ and 
συμφέροντος simply affirmed concerning a subject of delibera- 
tion? (chap. vi.) 

Are the στοιχεῖα and εἴδη ever comparatively affirmed con- 
cerning a measure, whether it be better and more useful? 
(chap. vii.) 

With what view does Aristotle treat of different. forms of 
government and their ra τέλη in this treatise ? 

Could the orator be possessed of προτάσεις on a deliberative 
subject without a knowledge of different forms of government 
and the institutions of the same? 

Are the things concerning which orators deliberate in 
necessary, impossible, or contingent matter ? 

To what kind of thjngs is deliberation principally confined ? 

Am I then to understand, that men deliberate on such 
things as it is possible for them to accomplish, and which de- 
pend not on chance for existence ? 

How many subjects of deliberation does Aristotle enumerate? 

In debates on finance. war and peace, internal defence, ex- 


350 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


ports and imports, what should the orator be accurately ac- 
quainted with ? 

Is the knowledge of legislation of importance to a deliber- 
ative orator ? 

In what does Aristotle place the safety of a state? 


CHAP. V. 


What is the great object of human pursuit ? 

How many definitions of happiness does Aristotle give? 

Which definition was adopted by the Stoics ? 

Which by the Epicurean and Peripatetic schools ? 

Can you enumerate any of the ra μέρη of happiness ? 

Distinguish the ra μέρη into the ra τ᾽ ἐν αὔτω, or internal 
goods, and into ra ἐκτὸς ἀγαθά, or external goods? 

Can you confirm the enumeration of the internal goods by 
the second definition of happiness, and that of the external 
goods in a measure, by the third definition ? 

Define numerous and worthy progeny, nobility, and good 
old age. 

Does honour arise ever from the reputation of conferring 
benefits ? 

Why does Aristotle omit to treat of the virtues under the 
deliberative species of orations ? 


CHAP. VI. 


What is the object proposed to the deliberative-orator ? 

Does he deliberate on the means conducive to the end, or 
the end itself ? 

How many definitions of good does Aristotle enumerate as 
στοιχεῖα ? 

How many εἴδη are there in this chapter deduced from the 
στοιχεῖα ὃ 

Are the στοιχεῖα of good ever definitions of good ? 

Give definitions of good assumed bythe reasons of choice, 
appetite, intellect, and disposition to contentment. 

Can you infer from the above premises that the acquisition 
of good, and the exemption from evil, are goods? 

Prove them to be goods by some of the definitions of good. 

Goods τὰ ὁμολογούμενα can be proved by the above defini 


UN ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 351 


tions, but in disputed cases, (ἐν ἀμφισβητησίμοις,) what is the 
easiest method of proving a thing to be a good ? 

Can you prove legislation to be a good because anarchy is 
an evil ? 

Can you prove happiness to be a good by the reason of 
choice ? 

Can you prove pleasure and social intercourse to be goods 
by the reason of appetite ? 

Can you prove the moral virtues to be goods by the reason 
of intellect ? 

Are the consequences to the exemption from evil and ac- 
quisition of good, immediate or remote ? 

Does Aristotle imply the utility of the virtues when he says 
that they are effective of good ? 

How does he prove such specific virtues as temperance, 
fortitude, &c., to be goods? 

Do you consider, on reviewing this chapter, that persuasion 
can be effected by other προτάσεις than simple προτάσεις as- 
sumed from the end of the εἴδος συμβουλευτικὸν ? 


CHAP. VII. 


How many definitions of good did you enumerate in the 
preceding chapter!? 

Repeat these four definitions. 

Mention the στοιχεῖα premised by Aristotle in this chapter, 
from which he deduces the εἴδη περὶ τοῦ μείζονος ἀγαθοῦ, καὶ 
συμφέροντος. 

Do I understand you to say that the definition of “ excess, 
and the thing exceeded,” is premised as the στοιχεῖον ? 

Define the ro τέλος. 

Is a plurality of goods greater than one, or a fewer goods, 
by the reason of numerical excess ? 

Would this εἴδος be fallacious, if the one, or the fewer, were 
not co-enumerated with the plurality? Vide Annotations, 
vii. 3. : 

If an orator were to say, that beauty, strength, and riches, 
were a greater good than virtue, would his assumption, ac- 
cording to Aristotle, be correct ἢ 


1 The first four may be considered as definitions of the τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ, 
the others descriptions of the τοῦ συμφέροντον 


852 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


Why would it not? 

Have the excesses of genera and species any analogy ? 

Could an orator prove ἐὰν τὸ μέγιστον τοῦ μεγιστοῦ ὑπερέχη, 
καὶ αὐτὰ αὐτῶν, that if justice is a greater good than bravery, 
Aristides excelled Themistocles ? 

How many εἴδη does Aristotle enumerate in this chapter ? 

Can an orator prove one thing to be a greater good than 
another by the reason of its being the τὸ τέλος ? 

Is happiness, therefore, a greater good than virtue ? 

Could he prove from the definition of the τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ and 
συμφέροντος, that virtue is a greater good than happiness, διὰ 
τὸ μείζονος ἀγάθου ποιητικὴν εἶναι ? 

How would he prove one principle (ἀρχὴ) to be greater 
than another?? 


CHAP. VIII. 


With what view has Aristotle treated in the former chap- 
ters of Εὐδαιμονία and the ἀγαθὸν and συμφέρον ὃ 

Why was it essential that he should treat of the εὐδαιμονία 
first? (vide chap. v. 2.) 

Is it by προτάσεις on the ἀγαθὸν and συμφέρον that the 
ἐκκλησιαστὴς persuades his audience ? 

Can you give a reason why the ἀγαθὸν and συμφέρον have 
a peculiar relation to εὐδαιμονία as the σκόπος of human pur- 
suit ? (chap. viii. 2.) 

Why does Aristotle assign so much importance to a know- 
ledge of the ra τέλη τῶν πολιτειῶν ? (chap. viii. 5.) 

Why does he consider a knowledge of the ἤθη of each 
πολιτεῖα essential ? (chap. viii. 6.) 

Explain how the speaker will become invested with moral 
character, by a perfect knowledge of the ἤθη without any pre- 
vious opinion having been entertained of him. (chap. viii. 6.) 

Enumerate the τὰ τέλη πολιτειῶν. 

Are the τὰ τέλη the subjects of deliberation, or measures 
which have a reference to the τὰ τέλη ? 


3. The reader is referred to Hobbes’ Brief of the Art of Rhetoric, for a 
distinct enumeration of the τόποι throughout this treatise. 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC, 353 


CHAP. 1X. 


Give the definitions of the τὸ καλὸν and τὸ αἰσχρὸν, honour 
and turpitude. 

Are these definitions premised as the στοιχεῖα from which 
the εἴδη of demonstrative oratory are deduced ? 

If the τὸ καλὸν be that which you have defined, does it fol- 
low that virtue and its species are honourable ? 

Give the definitions of virtue. 

If virtue is a δύναμις εὐεργετικὴν Which of the species of 
virtue do you consider the greatest ? 

Would you consider δικαιοσύνη a greater virtue than πρᾳότης ὃ 

Can you prove this assumption by the τόπος, ra μείζονος 
ἀγαθοῦ καὶ συμφέροντος ποιητικὰ, μείζω ὕ (vide chap. vii. 7.) 

Give the definitions of the species of virtue, as these are 
στοιχεῖα from which εἴδη in demonstrative oratory are deduced. 

Have demonstrative and deliberative oratory any points in 
common ? (vide chap. ix. 35.) 

Have the demonstrative and judicial any points in common ? 
(chap. ix. 38.) 

What is the difference between ἔπαινος and ἐγκώμιον ? 

On what principle must we show a man to have acted to be 
worthy of praise? (vide chap. viii. 32.) . 

Is coincidence of circumstances admissible as an indication 
of the προαίρεσις ? 

Which are the best indications of a man’s habits ? 

To which of the species of oration are amplification and 
extenuation peculiarly adapted ? | 

Is the παράδειγμα adapted to one species more than another ? 

Why do you consider it more adapted to the deliberative ? 

To which species is the enthymem most adapted ? 


CHAP, X, 


In considering the nature of the sources from which the 
εἴδη of judicial orations are deduced, what are the three ques- 
tions which Aristotle proposes to consider ? 

Define the τὸ ἀδικεῖν. 

Do you conceive, generally speaking, that whatever men 
do εἰδύτες they do ἑκόντες ? 

2a 


304 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


Does the προαίρεσις characterize all actions which men de 
ἑκόντες ὃ 

Does the προαέρεσις characterize all actions which men do 
εἰξότες ὃ 

Mention the causes of actions which men do προαιροῦμενοι 
and παρὰ τὸν νόμον. 

Must the accuser consider the τένων, καὶ πόσων ἕνεκα, or the 
inducement, to exist in his adversary ? 

What are the efficient causes of those actions which men do 
not dc αὑτοὺς ὃ 

Of this class of actions which men do not δι᾿ αὑτοὺς, but ἐξ 
ἀνάγκης, what are the specific causes which Aristotle mentions ? 

What are the efficient causes of those actions which men do 
δι᾿ αὑτοὺς ὃ 

Into how many species does Aristotle divide the Soekuc ? 

Mention the logical differences, which, when added to the 
genus ὄρεξις, give the species βούλησις, ὀργὴ and ἐπιθυμέα ὃ 

Enumerate the seven causes of actions. 

Can the ἡλικίαι and ἕξεις be called the true causes of human 
actions ? 

Have they their consequences which when added to the true 

causes give additional weight to the argument? 

Why does Aristotle omit to treat of the ἡλικίαι and ἕξεις 
under the judicial species ? 

Does Aristotle infer, from the definitions of the seven causes 
of human actions, the ends of the agents? (chap. x. 12, 13, 
14, et seq.) 

From which of the seven causes of actions does he infer the 
ends of those actions which men do δι᾿ αὑτοὺς ὃ 

When Aristotle says, that all such things as men do δι᾿ av- 
rove are real or apparent goods, why does he make the dis- 

_tinction of “real” and “ apparent”? 

Am I then to understand that all things which men do 
willingly, and consequently all things which they do unjustly, 
are really or apparently good, and really or apparently plea- 
sant, and that these are the ὧν ἕνεκα ἀδικοῦσι ὃ 


CHAP. XI. 


With what view has Aristotle introduced the συμφέρον in 
the judicial species of oration, when he had previously con- 


ON AR'STOTLE’S RHETORIC. 355 


sidered it as the τὸ τέλος of the deliberative? (chap. x. 
19. 

Do I understand you to say, that he introduces it because it 
is the end of human action ? 

You have before stated that the εὐδαιμονία was the σκόπος 
of human pursuit, and now state that the συμφέρον and ἀγαθὸν 
are the τὸ τέλος of actions; explain the meaning of the words 
σκόπος and τέλος. 

- Give the definition of ἡδονὴ and λύπη. 

How would you infer the definition of the ἡδύ and λυπηρόν! 

Are these definitions the στοιχεῖα from which Aristotle de- 
duces the εἴδη in this chapter !? 


CHAP. XII. 


What division does Aristotle make and premise of the πῶς 
ἔχοντες ἀδικοῦσι ὃ 

What are the three subdivisions of the ὅταν οἴωνται ἑαυτοῖς 
δυνατὸν ? 

Why does Aristotle refer the discussion of the δυνατὸν 
πραχθῆναι to the second book of Rhetoric ὃ 

Explain why the second part of the division, viz. ἑαυτοῖς 
δυνατὸν, should belong more especially to the judicial species, 
when the δυνατὸν πραχθῆναι is considered as a τόπος. 

Enumerate the threefold subdivision of the ὅταν οἴωνται 
ἑαυτοῖς δυνατὸν. 

To what things do those persons trust who rely on the 
punishment being less than the gain, if detected? (third 
_ member of the subdivision. ) 

Enumerate the things to which those persons trust who 
hope to escape punishment if detected: (second member of 
the subdivision.) 


CHAP. XIII. 


Why should right and wrong be defined in reference to two 
kinds of law ? 

Why is the twofold distinction of persons (πρὸς otc) in refer- 
ence to whom right and wrong is defined, necessary ἢ (3.) 

! The reader is referred to Hobbes’ Brief of the Art of Rhetorick, for 


an enumeration of the τόποι throughout this treatise. 
2a2 


356 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


How many species of law does Aristotle enumerate ? 

What is the subdivision of the νόμος ἴδιος ὕ (2.) 

What do you understand by the νόμος κοινὸς ? 

Give the definition of ro ἀδικεῖσθαι. 

From whence does Aristotle infer this definition ? (chap. 
x. 3. 

Wast is the threefold division which Aristotle makes of 
ἐγκλήματα, or accusation ? 

Why does Aristotle decline treating of the ἐγκλήματα διὰ 
πάθος in this chapter ἢ 

In what kind of cases do men, generally and specifically 
speaking, manifest the προαέρεσις in action? (chap. x. 4.) 

Is it necessary for an accuser to lay great stress on the 
προαίρεσις ? 

Under what circumstances, or with what dispositions, de 
men act by deliberative choice ? (chap. xii. 1.) 

Do you consider that the depravity and injustice of an act 
is manifested by the προαίρεσις of the agent ? 

Are they a σημεῖον or τεκμήριον of deliberate choice ἢ 

Is the προαέρεσις a σημεῖον or τεκμήριον of depravity and 
injustice ? 

How many distinctions of right and wrong (d«aia καὶ 
ἀγαθὰ) are there? 

Why is this twofold distinction made ? 

Into how many species does Aristotle divide the subaltern 
genus ἄγραφα ? 

Can you give a reason why the species “remarkably virtu- 
ous and vicious,” (τὰ μὲν καθ᾽ ὑπερβολὴν, &c.,) is not included 
in the written law ? 

When Solon was asked why he had not enacted a special 
law against parricide, what was his answer ? 

Does not this answer give the reason why ἄδικα of this spe- 
cies are not included in the written law ἑκόντων τῶν νομοθετῶν ? 

Mention some virtues, which as falling under the species 
καθ᾽ ὑπερβολὴν, &c., are not noticed in written laws ? 

Is it because they are so universally acknowledged and re- 
quired, that they are not noticed in written laws ? 

What is the second species of τὰ δικαία and ἄδικα ἢ 

What is the cause of this defect in the written law of states ? 

Give the definition of equity. 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 357 


CHAP. XIV. 


What is the standard by which the degrees in criminality 
may be ascertained ? 

With what view does Aristotle infer εἴδη, ὁσὰ ἄν ἦ ἀπὸ 
μείζονος ἀδικίας ἢ (vide chap. ix. 39, with respect to the 
αὔξησις, and Book ii. 26.) 

What kind of injuries are comparatively the more severely 
felt ? 

You stated in reply to questions in the first book, (chap. x.) 
that κακέα generally, and ἀκρασία specifically, were the causes 
of acts of injustice characterized by the προαίρεσις, how then 
would you ascertain the comparative enormity of ἀδικήματα ὃ 
(vide Annotationes Schrader.) 

Are ἀδικήματα of this description estimated by the hurt 
done, or the προαίρεσις of the agent ? (xii. 5.) 

If the hurt done be irremediable, is the act of injustice 
capable of being amplified ? 

Will the definition of ἀδικήματα depend on the πρόνοια of 
the agent? (vide Annotationes xiv. 5.) 

-Am I then to understand that ἀδικήματα which are irreme- 
diable, incapable of being adequately punished, of being re- 
venged, which are done frequently, and ἐκ προνοίας, may be 
considered μείζονα ὃ 


CHAP. XV, 


How many distinctions of the πίστεις ἄτεχναι are there ὃ 

Into how many species is the distinction νόμοι subdivided ἢ ? 

Into how many subaltern genera is the distinction paprupec 
(chap. xv. 13) divided ? 

Into how many subaltern species is the subaltern genus 
παλαιοὶ μάρτυρες subdivided ? 

What kind of persons and things constitute the lowest spe- 
cies to the subaltern species, (περὶ μὲν οὖν τῶν γενομένων) of 
the μάρτυρες παλαιοὶ ἢ (vide chap. xv. 13, 14.) 

What kind of things and persons constitute the lowest spe- 
cies to the subaltern species (περὶ δὲ τῶν ἐσομένων) of the 
μάρτυρες παλαιοὶ ἢ (chap. xv. 14.) 

Is the lowest species to the subaltern species, (περὶ μὲ; τῶν 


358 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS. 


γενομένων,) Viz. poets and illustrious men, most adapted to the 
judicial species of oration ? 

Is the iowest species to the subaltern species, (περὶ μὲν οὖν 
τῶν ἐσομένων,) Viz. soothsayers, oracles, and proverbs, equally 
serviceable in the deliberative as in the judicial species of 
oration ? 

Into how many subaltern species is the subaltern genus 
μάρτυρες πρόσφατοι divided ? (chap. xv. 13.) 

What kind of things and persons constitute the lowest spe~- 
cies to the subaltern species (οἱ μὲν μετέχοντες τοῦ κινδύνου) of 
the μάρτυρες πρόσφατοι ἢ (chap. xv. 15, last line.) 

What kind of persons constitute the lowest species to the 
subaltern species (οἱ δὲ ἐκτὸς κινδύνου) of the μάρτυρες πρόσφα- 
ro? (chap. xv. 15, first line.) 

Which of the two lowest species (viz. the of γνώριμοι, and 
οἱ ἂν δόξωσι ψεύδεσθαι, or Viva voce evidence, ) is most entitled 
to credit ? 

Aristotle has hitherto treated of the different kinds of 
μάρτυρες, and he then proceeds to consider the manner in 
which their credit is to be amplified and extenuated by the 
orator ; if the orator then has no witnesses to support his case, 
by what arguments must he diminish the credit of testimony ? 
(chap. xv. 17.) 

To what circumstances does testimony speak ἢ (18.) 

Is the impeachment of the veracity of a witness by an en- 
thymem (ἐξ εἰκότων) a solid objection to his testimony ? 

Am I then to understand, that if the orator has no testi- 
mony to adduce, he must, 

Ist. Insist on the propriety of the judge deciding, γνώμ 
τῇ ἀρίστῃ. (vide Book I. chap. xv. 5, 12, 17. Book 1. 
chap. xxv. 10.) 

2nd. That cixora are better than witnesses, as they are 
never open to corruption. 

3rd. That εἴκοτα are never convicted of falsehood ? 

If the orator has witnesses to support his case, by what 
arguments stould he corroborate their testimony, and extenu- 
ate the εἴκοτα ? 

What two precepts does Aristotle give with respect to the 
extenuation and amplification of the συνθῆκαι and βάσανοι ? 

What is the fourfold division with respect to oaths ὃ 


GENERAL QUESTIONS 


ON THE 


JUDICIAL SPECIES OF ORATION. 


In treating of the judicial species of oration, what docs 
Aristotle propose that the orator should first consider in his 
accusation ? 

If the question be simply whether his adversary has com- 
mitted an injury, the orator must prove,—what ? (chap. x. 2.) 

If an act of injustice has been committed, but that act of 
injustice has not been defined by the written law, under which 
species of law must he prove his case? (chap. xiii. 14 ; xv. 4.) 

Am I then to understand, that in inquiring whether his 
adversary has committed an act of injustice, the orator’s first 
business is to prove that he has acted for some end; secondly, 
that he was a likely person to commit it; and thirdly, that 
the object injured was a person likely to be injured ? 

Are these the three general points which he must prove 
against his adversary ? 

What is the specific point he must prove against his ad- 
versary ? 

Why is the general question, Whether the adversary has 
committed an act of injustice, (chap. x. xi. xii.) and the spe- 
cific question, Whether he has acted unjustly, (chap. xiii. 
distinguished ? (vide chap. x. 7.) 

To prove that his adversary has acted unjustly against the 
state, or a private individual, what must the orator urge 
against his adversary ? (chap. xiii. 7.) 

If the act is clearly done by a voluntary agent, on what 
principle must the orator prove his adversary to have acted? 
(chap. xiii. 7.) 


360 GENERAL QUESTIONS. 


If the act is clearly done by deliberative choice, what is 
the next question an orator must prove against his adversary ? 
(chap. xiil. 9.) 

To prove simply that his adversary has acted unjustly, how 
many specific questions arise for the orator’s consideration ? 

Are they not three ? . 

lst. Whether he has violated the written law? (chap. 
xili. 9. 

2nd. If 3A has not violated the written law, whether he 
has acted with depravity so excessive as not to be de- 
fined by the written law? (chap. xiii. 12.) 

3rd. Whether he has acted in violation of equity ? (chap. 
xiii. 12, 13.) 


ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


ON 


ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 


BOOK II.—CHAP. I. 


You stated in reply to questions in the first book, that Aris- 
totle had made three distinctions of πέστεις, viz. διὰ τοῦ ἤθους, 
διὰ τῶν ἀκροατῶν, διὰ τῶν λόγων : which of these three distinc- 
tions has he already treated of, and which is he now proceed- 
ing to discuss ? 

What is the end of Rhetoric, or the object which an orator 
in speaking has always in view ? (vide Annotationes, chap. i. 2.) 

How does the investment of one’s self with moral character 
effect persuasion in the auditor ? (vide Schrader’s note, 1, 3.) 

Must the qualifications by which the speaker invests him- 
self with moral character, be perceived from the speech as 
' existing in him, (vide Book I. chap. ii. 4,) or known to have 
existed in him before? 

From the three distinctions of πέστεις, what do you infer to 
be the three great accomplishments of a perfect orator ? 

Do I understand you to say, proof by enthymem, invest- 
ment of himself with moral character, and the excitement of 
the passions in his auditors ? 

What are the three causes of a speaker’s effecting persua- 
sion through moral character ? 

If a speaker appears to be a man capable of imparting be- 
nefits to the state, does he effect persuasion through moral 
character, by his virtue ? (vide chap. ix. 4, definition of virtue.) 

When Demosthenes in the oration for the crown makes use 
of the following words,— 


362 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


"ANN ὡς ἔοικεν, ἐκεῖνος 6 καιρὸς Kal ἣ ἡμέρα ἐ, εἰνη οὗ μόνον 
εὔνουν καὶ πλούσιον ἄνδρα ἐκάλει, ἀλλὰ καὶ παρηκολουθηκότα τοῖς 
πράγμασιν ἐξ ἀρχῆς, καὶ συλλελογισμένον ὀοθῶς τίνος ἕνεκα 
ταῦτ᾽ ἔπραττεν ὃ Φίλιππος καὶ τί βουλόμενος" ὁ γὰρ μὴ: ταῦτ᾽ εἰδὼς 
μηδ᾽ ἐξητακὼς πόῤῥωθεν ἐπιμελῶς, οὔτ᾽ εἰ εὔνους ἦν οὔτ᾽ εἰ πλού- 
σιος, οὐδὲν μᾶλλον ἤμελλεν ὅ τι χρὴ ποιεῖν εἴσεσθαι οὐδ᾽ ὑμῖν 
ἕξειν συμβουλεύειν. ἐφάνην τοίνυν οὗτος ἐν ἐκείνῇ τῇ ἡμέρᾳ ἐ ἐγώ, 
καὶ παρελθὼν εἶπον. εἰς ὑμᾶς, ἅ μου δυοῖν ἕνεκ᾽ ἀκούσατε προσέ- 
χοντες τὸν γοῦν, ἑνὸς μέν, ἵν᾽ εἰδῆτε ὅ ore μόνος τῶν λεγόντων καὶ 
πολιτευομένων ἐγὼ τὴν τῆς εὐνοίας τάξιν ἐν τοῖς δεινοῖς οὐκ 
ἔλιπον, ἀλλὰ καὶ λέγων καὶ γράφων ἐξηταζόμην τὰ δέονθ᾽ ὑπὲρ 
ὑμῶν ἐν αὐτοῖς τοῖς φοβεροῖς, ἑ ἑτέρου δέ, ὅτι μικρὸν ἀναλώσαντες 
χρόνον πολλῳ πρὸς τὰ λοιπὰ τῆς πάσης πολιτείας ἔσεσθ᾽ ἐμπειρό- 
τεροι;---- 
to which distinction of πέστεις does he recur, and through 
which of the causes φρόνησις, ἀρετὴ, or εὔνοια, does he endeas 
vour to effect persuasion ? 


CHAP. II. 


What are the three questions which Aristotle proposes for 
consideration in treating of the passions? (Book II. chap. i. 9.) 

With what view was this threefold division necessary ? 

Is it possible to obtain τόποι calculated for the excitement 
of the passions without a knowledge of these three questions 
proposed by Aristotle ? (Book II. chap. i. 9.) 

Give the definition of anger. 

Is this definition proposed as a στοιχεῖον from which the 
γόποι are afterwards inferred ἢ 

Does not Aristotle explain this definition by two proposi- 
tions, viz. 

Ist. Anger is against some individual on account of con- 
tempt to one’s self or friends. 

- 2nd. Pain is not so much the consequent of anger as a 

certain pleasure ? 

Explain the reference which these two explanatory propo- 
sitions have to the definition of anger. 

To what cause do you attribute the sensation of pain in 
anger ? 

To what causes (which are two) do you attribute the sensa- 
tion of pleasure in anger ? 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 363 


Can you give any other reasons why pleasure should be a 
consequent ? (Book I. chap. x. 17, 18; chap. xi. 10, 12, 13.) 

Could you infer a reason from the definition of Syme in the 
first book ? 

Is the ἡ ὀργὴ a generic or specific term ! ? 

Under what generic term do you class the ἡ ὀργὴ 

What is the object of anger ? 

What is the cause of anger ? 

How many species of the ὀλιγωρία are there ? 

Does not Aristotle prove that the καταφρόνησις is a species 
of ὀλιγωρία from the definition of ὀλιγωρία ? 

Do you consider the ἐπήρεασμος to be a distinct species of 
ὀλιγωρία ? 

Explain how Aristotle from its own definition proves the 
ἐπηρεασμὸς to be a distinct species of ὀλιγωρία. 

Is slight attended with a certain pleasure? 

You have before stated in reply to questions in the former 
book, that all actions done by men ἑκόντες are ἀγαθὰ ἢ φαινό- 
μενα ἀγαθὰ, ἢ ἡδέα ἢ φαινόμενα ἡδέα : can you show that if the 
ὀλιγωρία be ἃ Sematicy act, it must be consequently ἡδύ ἢ 
φαινόμενον dv? 

Why should it not be ἀγαθὸν ἢ φαινόμενον ἀγαθόν ἢ (Book 
I. chap. x. 18.) 

To what cause do you attribute the pleasure which the o 
ὑβρίζων feels ? 

How then are men affected when they feel anger ? 

With what kind of persons do they feel angry ? 

What are the causes of this passion ? 

‘What is it incumbent on the orator to prove, to excite an- 
ger against his adversary ? 

What kind of person must he prove his adversary to be, tc 
merit anger ? 

When Aéschines uses the following arguments in his ora- 
tion against Ctesiphon, does he endeavour to excite anger 
against Demosthenes? and by which of the causes ὀλιγωρία, 
or its species, does he endeavour to excite it against his ad- 
versary ? 

Δεύτερον δὲ καὶ πολὺ τούτου μεῖζον ἀδίκημα ἠδίκησεν, ὅτι τὸ 
βουλευτήριον τὸ τῆς πόλεως καὶ τὴν δημοκρατίαν ἄρδην ἔλαθεν 
ὑφελόμενος καὶ μετήνεγκεν εἰς Θήβας εἰς τὴν Καδμείαν, τὴν 
κοινωνίαν τῶν πράξεων τοῖς Βοιωτάρχαις συνθέμενος" καὶ τηλι- 


= 


364° ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


καύτην abroc αὐτῷ δυναστείαν κατεσκεύασεν, ὥστ᾽ ἤδη παριὼν ἐπι 
τὸ βῆμα πρεσβεύσειν μὲν ἔφη ὅποι ἂν αὐτῷ δοκῇ, κἂν μὴ ὑμεῖς 
ἐκπέμπητε, εἰ δέ τις αὐτῷ τῶν στρατηγῶν ἀντείποι, καταδουλού- 
μενος τοὺς ἄρχοντας καὶ συνεθίζων μηδὲν αὐτῷ ἀντιλέγειν διαδι- 
κασίαν ἔφη γράψειν τῶ βήματι πρὸς τὸ στρατηγεῖον᾽ πλείω γὰρ 
ὑμᾶς ἀγαθὰ ὑφ᾽ ἑαυτοῦ ἔφη ἀπὸ τοῦ βήματος πεπονθέναι ἢ ὑπὸ 
τῶν στρατηγῶν ἐκ τοῦ στρατηγείου. μισθοφορῶν δ᾽ ἐν τῷ ξενικῷ. 
κεναῖς χώραις, καὶ τὰ στρατιωτικὰ χρήματα κλέπτων, καὶ τοὺς 
μυρίους ξένους ἐκμισθώσας ᾿Αμφισσεῦσι πολλὰ διαμαρτυρομένον 
καὶ σχετλιάζοντος ἐν ταῖς ἐκκλησίαις ἐμοῦ, προσέμιξε φέρων avap- 
πασθέντων τῶν ξένων τὸν κίνδυνον ἀπαρασκεύῷ τῇ πόλει. τί γὰρ 
ἂν οἴεσθε Φίλιππον ἐν τοῖς τότε καιροῖς εὔξασθαι; οὐ χωρὶς μὲν 
πρὸς τὴν πολιτικὴν δύναμιν χωρὶς δ᾽ ἐν ᾿Αμφίσσῃ πρὸς τοὺς 
ξένους διαγωνίσασθαι, ἀθύμους δὲ τοὺς Ἕλληνας λαβεῖν τηλικαύ- 
της πληγῆς γεγενημένης ; καὶ τηλικούτων κακῶν αἴτιος γεγενη- 
μένος Δημοσθένης οὐκ ἀγαπᾷ εἰ μὴ δίκην δέδωκεν, ἀλλ᾽ εἰ μὴ καὶ 
χρυσῷ στεφάνῳ στεφανωθήσεται ἀγανακτεῖ" οὐδ᾽ ἱκανόν ἐστιν αὐτῷ 
ἐναντίον ὑμῶν κηρύττεσθαι, ἀλλ᾽ εἰ μὴ τῶν ἙἭ λλήνων ἐναντίον 
ἀναῤῥηθήσεται, τοῦτ᾽ ἤδη ἀγανακτεῖ. οὕτως, ὦ ἔοικε, πονηρὰ φύσις 
μεγάλης ἐξουσίας ἐπιλαβομένη δημοσίας ἀπεργάζεται συμφοράς. 


CHAP. III. 


As the ἡ zpaivore is the contrary to the ἡ ὀργὴ, and the 
τόποι are therefore inferred ratione contrariorum, it will be 
necessary to propose many questions on this chapter. 

What is the definition of the ἡ πράῦνσις ? 

You stated in reply to a former question, that pain and 
pleasure were consequent to the τὰ πάθη and σημεῖα of the 
ἡ βούλησις, (chap. iv.) but are they both consequent to the 
ἡ πράῦνσις, and which is the σημεῖον of the βούλησις in this 
passion ? 


CHAP. IV. 


What is the definition of the τὸ φιλεῖν ἢ 

Can you infer from this definition that a friend is perceived 
from the indications of the ἡ βούλησις ὃ 

What are the σημεῖα of the ἡ βοῦλησις ? (8.) 

How many species of the ἡ φίλιο are there? (28.) 

What are the causes which give occasion to the  pidu ~ 


ON ARISTOTLE’S: RHETORIC, 365 


What is the difference between the ἡ ὀργὴ and the ἡ ἔχθρα ? 

How many differences does Aristotle enumerate ? 

How many, and what are the causes of the ἡ ἔχθρα which 
Aristotle enumerates? (30.) 

You have stated that the ἡ ὀργὴ is felt on a count of the 
ἡ ὀλιγωρία and its species ; but if a man is habitually addicted 
to the ἡ ὀλιγωρία and its species, are our sentiments those of 
the ἡ ὀργὴ or ἡ ἔχθρα ὃ 

Do anger and hatred ever differ with respect to the objects 
against whom they are felt ? (xxxi. line 3, 4.) 

Can you class both these passions under the genus ὀρέξεις 
ἄλογοι ? 

Does the sensation of the ἡ λύπη accompany the ἔχθρα ὃ 
(xxxi. line 10.) 

Which of the two passions, the ἡ ὀργὴ and the ἡ ἔχθρα, does 
Aristotle consider as incurable ? 

You stated in a former chapter that the ἡ τιμωρία was the 
object of the ἡ ὀργὴ, what is the object of the ἡ ἔχθρα ἢ (xxxi. 
line 6. 

Whee kind of person will an orator describe his adversary 
to be, when he endeavours to excite feelings of hatred against 
him in his auditors ? 


CHAP. V. 


Give the definition of the ὁ φόβος. 

Does it follow from this definition that all the ra κακὰ are 
the objects of the ὁ φόβος ? 

What kind of evils then excite the ὁ φόβος ? 

Is it absolutely necessary for the sensation of the ὁ φόβος 
that the evil should be close at hand? 

Can you mention any circumstances, or characters in life, 
which excite the ὁ φόβος in others? (vii. et seq.) 

What is the reason that men are not afraid of such evils as 
death ? 

Am I to understand that some hope of safety is essential in 
the sensation of the ὁ φόβος ἢ (xiv.) 

Is deliberation also essential in the sensation of the ὁ φόβος ? 

If the τὰ κακὰ be of such a description as to annihilate all 
hope of safety, and prevent all deliberation in the sufferer, 
what is the τὸ πάθος which under such circumstances is felt ? 


366 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


In what chief respects do the sensations of the ὁ φόβος and 
τὸ δεινὸν differ ? 

Do I understand you to say, “In the feeling of hope and 
anxiety, and excitement of deliberation, which accompany the 
one, but are annihilated in the other ?” 

Do they differ also in any other remarkable respect ? (chap. 
v. 12, line 4; chap. viii. 13, line 4.) 

Do I understand you to say, “ In the sensation of the ὁ ἔλεος 
if the τὰ κακὰ were to happen to others and not to ourselves ?” 

Is the difference discoverable in the case of Amasis ? 

Give the definition of the τὸ ϑαῤῥεῖν. 

What is the twofold division which Aristotle makes of the 
men who feel the τὸ ϑάρσος ἢ (xviii.) 

What illustration does Aristotle give in support of this dis- 
tinction ? 

To which of the three species of oration do you consider 
appeals to the ὁ φόβος most peculiar ὃ 

Give me a reason why you consider them most peculiar to 
the εἴδος συμβουλευτικὸν. (Confer Book I. chap. iii. 4, with the 
definition of the ὁ ¢6Goc.) 

In which of the three species do you consider appeals to the 
ἡ ὀργὴ, ὁ φθόνος, and ὁ ἔλεος, most likely to occur ἢ 

Does Aristotle approve of such appeals to the ὁ δικαστῇ; ἢ 
(Book i. chap. i. 5.) 


CHAP. VI. 


Give the definition of the αἰσχύνη. 

Do only acts of depravity, or do the σημεῖα of such specific 
vices as illiberality, flattery, &c., ever excite the ἡ αἰσχύνη ἢ. 

Give me a σημεῖον of the ἡ κολακεία ὃ 


CHAP. VII. 


Give the definition of the ἡ χάρις. 

Has this word two distinct significations? (vide Schrader 
Annotationes. ) 

Which of these two significations is expressive of the ré 
πάθος ὃ ; 

With what view does Aristotle explain the ἡ χάρις as im- 
plying gratuitous benevolence ? 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 367 


Is it for the purpose of showing how it may be amplified ? 

What division of the ai ὀρέξεις does Aristotle make in this 
chapter ? (iii.) 

To which division do you consider such ἐπιθυμίαι as hun- 
ger and thirst belong? 

Is it necessary that the party benefited must be ἐν τῇ τοιαύτῃ 
δεήσει to constitute the ἡ χάρις ? 3 : 
Is it necessary that the party benefiting should assist the 
other ἐν τῇ τοιαύτῃ χρεία 


CHAP. VIII. 


Give the definition of the ὁ ἔλεος. 

What kind of persons are most sensible of the ὁ ἔλεος ὃ 

What reason does Aristotle give that the of παντελῶς απο- 
AwAdrec do not feel the ὁ ἔλεος ὃ 

Why do not the οἱ ὑπερευδαιμονεῖν οἰόμενοι feel the ὁ ἔλεος ? 

What reason does Aristotle give that the oi ὄντες ἐν ὀργῇ ἢ 
Sapper do not feel the ὁ ἔλεος ἢ (vi.) 

Can you give another reason drawn from the definition of 
the ἡ ὀργὴ and ὁ ἔλεος ? 

Can you class the ἡ ὀργὴ and ὁ ἔλεος under the genus ὄρεξεις 
ἄλογοι ὃ 

What kind of persons do men pity ? 

Give me a reason why you except the σφόδρα ἐγγὺς ὦσιν 
οἰκειότητι. 

In what respects do the τὸ δεινὸν and ὁ ἔλεος differ ? (xii.) 

Can you give a reason why certain characters, when repre- 
sented on the stage, excite pity ? 


= 


CHAP. IX. 


What passion is directly opposed to the ὁ ἔλεος ὃ 

Can you class the ἡ νέμεσις and ὁ ἔλεος under the same 
genus of the ra πάθη ἢ 

What is the logical difference which when added to the 
generic term, gives the specific terms ἡ νέμεσις and ὁ ἔλεος ὃ 
(i. line 4.) 

Does not Aristotle define the ἡ νέμεσις and ὁ φθόνος by a 
comparison of each with the ὁ ἔλεος ? 


368 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


Do you consider the ἡ νέμεσις and ὁ ἔλεος to proceed from 
the same virtuous dispositions? (ἀπό τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἤθους.) 

If they do not proceed from the same virtuous dispositions, 
could they be classed under the same genus of the ra πάθη ὃ 

Is the ὁ φθόνος opposed in a measure only, or does it differ 
entirely from the 6 ἔλεος ? 

In what respects do they agree, and in what differ ? 

Can ‘you infer that the opposite feelings are consequent to 
these passions ? 

What is the opposite feeling and consequent to the ὁ φθόνος ? 

What is the opposite feeling and consequent to the ὁ ἔλεος ? 

Do you consider that the ὁ φθόνος and ἡ νέμεσις dispossess 
us of pity ἢ 

What kind of person must the orator show his adversary 
to be, when he wishes to excite indignation against him in his 
auditor ? 

Can you infer from its definition that the ἡ νέμεσις is felt at 
the virtues? (viii.) 

You have stated that the ἡ νέμεσις and the ὁ ἔλεος are di- 
rectly opposed to each other, and are under the same genus; 
can you infer therefore, that if the ἡ νέμεσις is not felt at the 
virtues, the ὁ ἔλεος is not felt at the vices of others? - 


CHAP. X, 


Give the definition of the ὁ φθόνος. 

What are the three distinct parts in this definition, which 
should be distinguished, to obtain a clear understanding of 
the τόποι ἢ 4 

When Aristotle says that such persons are likely to feel 
envy as have equals, from which part of the definition does 
he infer this τόπος ὃ 

What kind of a person must an orator represent his adver- 
sary to be when he wishes to excite the ὁ φθόνος in the judge ? 


CHAP, XI. 


Give the definition of the ὁ ζῆλος. 
Does the ὁ ζῆλος differ from the ὁ φθόνος ὃ 
In what respects do they differ ? 


»νγ νυ» 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIe. ᾿ς 860 


Can the ὁ ζῆλος be felt at the vices of others? 

To what genus of the ra πάθη does the ὁ ζῆλος belong ? 
(i. line 5.) 3 

Is the ἡ καταφρόνησις opposed only, or is it the contrary to 
the ὁ ζῆλος ? 


CHAP. XII. 


Why is it necessary that an orator should consider the ra 
ἤθη of his auditors in reference to their passions, habits, ages, 
and fortunes ? 

Does Aristotle use the expression τὰ ἤθη as implying only 
a certain disposition peculiar to men at a certain time of life, 
or as implying the ai ἕξεις, or the virtues and vices ? 

Are the τὰ ἤθη the effects, or are they only consequent tc 
the ai ἡλίκιαι and τύχαι of men? 

You have stated that the orator should consider the ra ἤθη 
of his auditors in reference to their passions, habits, &c.; un- 
der which of the three distinctions of πέστεις would you place 
this part of Rhetoric ? (vide Riccobon in cap. xii. hujus libri.) 

Do you consider that, when Aristotle treats of the ra πάθη, 
ae ἕξεις, and τὰ ἤθη, he considers them to have a relation to 
the three species of oration ? 

You stated in reply to a question in the former book, that. 
the ai ἡλέκιαι and τύχαι of men were not the true causes of ac- 
tions, but when added to the true causes, give additional weight 
to an argument in judicial inquiry, (vide Book I. chap. x.) do 
you consider that the orator should adapt his oration to the 
τὰ ἤθη of his auditors in reference to their passions, habits, 
&c., in the demonstrative and judicial species ? 

What, generally speaking, are the ra ἤθη consequent to 
youth and old age? 

What are the ra ἤθη consequent to the middle-aged ? 

Why does Aristotle treat of the ra ἤθη of the young and 
old before those of the middle-aged ? 

What, generally speaking, are the ra ἤθη of the noble, the 
rich, and the powerful!? 


1 For a distinct enumeration of the τὰ ἤθη as far as the seventeenth 
chapter, the reader is referred to Hobbes’ Brief, as a distinct exposition 
would swell these questions to an unnecessary length. 


28 


370 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


CHAP. XVIII. 


What reason does Aristotle adduce in this chapter for his 
treating of the ra ἤθη ἢ 

Did Aristotle treat of any ἤθη in the first book of Rhetoric ἢ 

Why did he treat of the γα ἡδη cura τὰς πολιτείας in the 
first book ? 

Of the τόποι περὶ δυνατῶν καὶ ἀδυνάτων do you consider the 
τὸ γεγονὸς and τὸ ἐσόμενον both equally applicable to the 
judicial and deliberative species of orations ? 


CHAP. XIX. 


The reader is referred to Hobbes’ Brief for an exposition 
of the τόποι in this chapter. 


CHAP. XX, 


Are the παράδειγμα and ἐνθύμημα common to all the species 
of oration ? 

As Aristotle says that the παράδειγμα is like induction, ex- 
plain in what points they resemble, and in what they differ. 
(vide Riccobon in cap. xx. hujus libri.) 

How many distinctions of παράδειγμα are there ? 

Into how many species is the τὸ αὐτὸν ποιεῖν, or matter in- 
vented by the orator, subdivided ? 

Explain what is meant by the species παραβολὴ ? 

When Cicero, in his oration against Catiline, says,—“ Quod 
si ex tanta latrocinio iste unus tolletur; videbimur fortasse 
ad breve quoddam tempus cura et metu esse relevati; pericu- 
lum autem residebit, et erit inclusum penitus in venis atque 
visceribus reipublice. Ut sepe homines egri morbo gravi 
cum estu febrique jactantur, si aquam gelidam biberint, primo 
relevare videntur; deinde multo gravius vehementiusque af- 
flictantur ; sic hic morbus, qui est in republica, relevatus istius 
pena vehementius, civibus reliquis, ingravescet;” is this a 
παραβολὴ OF λόγος ? 

When Agrippa Menenius says, “Tempore, quo in homine, 
non, ut nunc, omnia in unum consentiebant, sed singulus 
membris suum cuique “~nsilium, suus sermo fuerat, indignatas 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 371 


reliquas partes, sua cura, suo labore ac ministerio ventri om- 
nia queri: ventrem, in medio quietum, nihil aliud, quam datis 
voluptatibus frui; conspirasse inde, ne manus ad os cibum 
ferrent, nec os acciperet datum, nec dentes conficerent. Hac 
ira, dum ventrem fame domare vellent, ipsa una membra to- 
tumque corpus ad extremam tabem venisse. Inde apparuisse, 
ventris quoque haud segne’ ministerium esse: nec magis ali, 
quam alere eum, reddentem in omnes corporis partes hunc, 
quo vivimus vigemusque, divisum pariter in venas maturum, 
confecto cibo, sanguinem. Is this a παραβολὴ or λόγος ? 

Which of the two distinctions of the παράδειγμα do you 
consider most persuasive in deliberative oratory ? 

If the orator has not enthymems at command, how does 
Aristotle recommend him to use the παράδειγμα ? 

But if the orator has both enthymems and examples at 
command, which does he recommend should be placed before 
the other? 

In the passage quoted from Cicero does he follow Aristotle’s 
precept or not ? 

Why is the παράδειγμα and its species, when placed before 
the enthymems, little adapted to a speech ? 

What advantage is gained by placing the παράδειγμα after 
the enthymem ? 

In placing the παράδειγμα after the enthymem will one be 
a sufficient proof, or are several requisite ? 


CHAP. XXI. 


Give the definition of the 7 γνώμη. 

Are the conclusions of enthymems ever γνώμαι 

How many subaltern genera of the ἡ γνώμη are there ? 

Into how many species is the subaltern genus ἄνευ ἐπιλόγου 
subdivided ? 

Into how many species is the other subaltern genus μετ᾽ 
ἐπιλόγου subdivided ? 

Explain what kind of yv@pa those are which require not 
the annexation of the ἐπίλογος. 

Explain what kind of γνώμαι those are which require the 
annexation of the ἐπίλογος. 

You have stated that each subaltern genus is subdivided 
into two species would you be correct in saying that the 

282 


372 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


150 species of the subaltern genus (ἄνευ ἐπιλόγου) require 
not the annexation of the ἐπίλογος, because they were 
understood before uttered; and that the 

2nd species of the same subaltern genus require not the 
annexation of the ἐπίλογος, because they are under- 
stood as soon as uttered; and that the 

8rd species of the subaltern genus (μετ᾽ ἐπιλόγου) are 
parts of enthymems: and that the 

4th species of the same subaltern genus are essentially 
enthymems, and have the ἐπίλογος as it were inserted 
in them ? 

What division does Aristotle make with respect to the use 
of γνώμαι ὃ (i.) 

On dubious and incredible subjects, which of the above 
species dues Aristotle recommend to be used ? 

On subjects not altogether incredible, but obscure, which of 
the above species does he recommend to be used? (vi. ai & 
ενθυμήματι καὶ μὲν.) 

We now come to the third! use of γνώμαι (τίσιν ἀρμόττει) : 
is the use of γνώμαι equally suited to all ages and conditions 
of persons ? 

Ought γνώμαι not universally true to be indiscriminately 
used in every part of a speech ? 

In what occasions then should γνώμαι of this description 
only be used, and ought they to have the ἐπέλογος ? 

Are yvwpa which are generally admitted to be true, ad- 
missible in every part of a speech ? 

Are the γνώμαι which contravene current sayings (παρὰ ra 
δεδημοσιευμέναις) equally admissible in every part of a speech ἢ 

On what occasions then is it fit that they should be used ? 

xiii. 
πᾶ will the τὸ ἤθος be made to appear βέλτιον ? 

Do I understand you to say “by being manifested in the 
diction, or by annexing the reason forthe received opinion ?” 

What advantages does the use of γνώμαι contribute to the 
orator ? 

When the orator wishes to give his speech an air of moral 
character by the use of γνώμαι, what principle must he mani- 
fest ? 


1 Aristotle has treated of the τίσιν ἀρμόττει first, in violation of his 
proposed arrangement in the beginning of the chapter. 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 373 


In the following quotation from Demosthenes περὶ τοῦ 
Στεφάνοῦ 1 is there a γνώμη § ? 

"AXN ob διὰ ταῦτα προεῖντο τοὺς J hg saci: ἐφ᾽ ἑαυτούς, 
ἀλλ᾽ ὑπὲρ εὐδοξίας καὶ τιμῆς ἤθελον τοῖς δεινοῖς αὑτοὺς διδόναι, 
ὀρθῶς καὶ καλῶς βουλευόμενοι. πέρας μὲν γὰρ. ἅπασιν ἀνθρώποις 
ἐστὶ τοῦ βίου ϑάνατος, κἂν ἐν οἰκίσκῳ τις αὑτὸν καθείρξας τηρῇ" 
δεῖ δὲ τοὺς ἀγαθοὺς ἄνδρας ἐγχειρεῖν μὲν ἅπασιν ἀεὶ τοῖς καλοῖς, 
τὴν ἀγαθὴν προβαλλομένους ἐλπίδα, φέρειν δ᾽ ὅ τι ἂν ὁ ϑεὸς διδῷ 
γενναίως. 

To which species does it belong, and why does it not re- 
quire the annexation of the ἐπέλογος ? 


CHAP. XXII. XXIII. XXIV. 


The reader is referred to Hobbes’ Brief on the subject of 
these chapters. 


CHAP. XXV. XXVI. 


You stated in reply to a question in the first book, that the 
πίστεις διὰ τοῦ δείκνυσθαι, &c., were divided into two species, 
ἐνθύμημα and παράδειγμα: what subdivision does Aristotle 
make of the ἐνθύμημα in the second book? (Book II. chap. 
xxii. 14.) 

How many modes of the ἡ λύσις, or solution of arguments, 
are there ? 

Explain the different methods of starting an objection. 

How is an εἰκὸς solvable? 

How is a παράδειγμα solvable ? 

How is a τεκμήριον solvable ἢ 

How is ἃ σημεῖον solvable? 

What reason does Aristotle give for not considering ei 70 
αὔξειν καὶ μειοῦν as τόποι ἐνθυμήματος ? 

How is a solution of them effected ? 


ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


ON 


ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 


BOOK III.—CHAP. I. 


Wuat importance does Aristotle ascribe to the λέξις in rhee 
toric ὃ 

Does he ascribe any importance to the ὑπόκρισις ? 

In what does he consider it to consist ? (iv.) 

But why does he treat only of the λέξις when he ascribes 
importance to the ὑπόκρισις ? (vi. and vii.) 

Does he make any distinction between the style of poetry 
and orations ? 


CHAP, II. 


Define the λέξεως ἀρετὴ, or excellence of style. 


Why does Aristotle object to the too frequent use of 
γλώτταις or exotic words, πεποιήμενοις or newly-coined words, 
. and δίπλοις or compound words ? 

Is the orator obliged to confine himself to the use of the 
κύρια or words in common use, or is he at liberty to use the 
other species occasionally ? 

What advantage does the use of the κύρια contribute to 
“style ? 

What advantage does the use of the γλώτταις, &c. con- 
tribute to style when sparingly used ? | 


ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS, 375 


_ When Aristotle says that in the use of ornament we should 
seek to escape observation, and avoid a studied manner, what 
would be the consequence of the neglect of this twofold pre- 
cept ? (iv.) 

Does Aristotle lay great stress on the proper use of appro- 
priate metaphors in an oration ? 

For the selection of metaphors what precepts does Aristotle 
give? (ix. xii. xiii.) 

From what sources then are appropriate metaphors de- 
duced ἢ (xiii.) 


CHAP, III. 


What nouns does Aristotle mention as contributing to a 
frigid style ? 

When do epithets render an oration frigid ? 

Is the too frequent use of appropriate epithets approved 
by Aristotle ? 

When do you conceive a metaphor and epithet unbecom- 
ing ? (chap. ii. 9.) 


CHAP. IV. 


In what respect does the εἰκὼν differ from the μεταφορὰ ? . 

Why does Aristotle caution the orator against the too fre- 
quent use of the εἰκὼν ? 

Can the μεταφορὰ be enunciated as the εἰκὼν, and the εἰκὼν 
as μεταφορὰ ? 

How would you change a μεταφορὰ to an εἰκὼν ? 

On what principle must the εἰκὼν be constructed to be 
appropriate ? 


CHAP. V. 


In what does excellence of style (λέξεως ἀρετὴ) consist ? 

On what does purity of style (τὸ ἑλληνίζειν) depend ? 

Do I understand you to say the first consists in the proper 
use of words, and the latter in their clear and proper arrange 
ment ? 

Why does Aristotle distinguish the ro ἑλληνίζειν, (chap. v.) 
the ὄγκος, (chap. vi.) and the τὸ πρέπον, (chap. vii.) from the 
ro σχῆμα τῆς λέξεως ? (chap. viii.) 


37€ ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS 


Do I understand you to say, because the first are essential 
to style, or by which it becomes calculated to effect per- 
suasion, and the latter only accidental to style, or contributing 
to give it elegance and beauty ? 


CHAP VI. 


How is elevation of style (ὁ ὄγκος) attained ἢ 


CHAP. VII. 


When will the τὸ πρέπον, or becoming in style, be attained ἢ 

You say that the τὸ πρέπον in style will be attained, if it 
be passionate, expressive of moral character, and suited to the 
subject ; what do you mean by the τὸ ἦθος λέξεως ? (vide 
Annotationes vii. 6. Vater.) 

When Aristotle treats of the τὸ ἦθος in style, do you con- 
sider the τὸ ἦθος λέξεως as belonging to the ἐν τῷ ἤθει τοῦ 
λέγοντος, one of the distinctions of πέστεις in the first book ? 

In treating of the πέστις ἤθικη in the second book, and 
again in this book, on the subject of style, explain the three- 
fold manner in which Aristotle has treated of this distinction 
of πέστεις. (vide Riccobon in Lib. 11. cap. i. p. 153, and Lib. 
III. cap. vii. p. 246.) 

When Aristotle says the style is becoming when adapted 
to the ἕξεις, what meaning do you attach to the word ἕξεις ? 


CHAP. VIII. 


What precepts does Aristotle give on the ro σχῆμα τῆς 
λέξεως ὃ 

How many species of the ὁ ῥυθμὸς does Aristotle mention ? 

Of these, which is the only one, out of which it is impos- 
sible to construct any metre, and therefore appropriate ? 

Which of the two species of Pans is most proper for the 
commencement and the conclusion of a speech ? 


CHAP. IX. 


Define the λέξις εἰρομένη and κατεστραμμένη. 

How many species of the περίοδος are there ? 

In treating of the τὸ σχῆμα τῆς λέξεως What division does 
Aristotle make ? 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 377 


How many distinctions of the τὸ σχῆμα τῆς λέξεως are there ? 

Which of these is the most proper for orations ? 

How many species of the περίοδος are there? 

What do you mean by a περίοδος ἀφελὴς ? 

Of the περίοδος which consists of clauses, what subdistinc- 
tion does Aristotle make? (7. 9.) 

What is meant by the παρέσωσις and παρομοίωσις ὃ 


CHAP. X. 


Does the invention of the ἀστεῖα and eddoxipovvra.of style 
belong to rhetoric ? 

What reason can you give from the first book of rhetoric 
that they do not? (Book I. chap. ii.) 3 

Which do you consider .are the most approved ἀστεῖα and 
εὐδοκιμοῦντα of style ? 

Why are the simile and metaphor most approved ? 

Can you infer from Aristotle’s general inference that “ those 
beauties and elegancies of style are most approved which are 
the quickest in communicating information,” any particular 
rule for the selection of ἐνθυμήματα or arguments ? 

In treating of such ἀστεῖα as metaphor, simile, enthymem, 
and antithesis, why has Aristotle treated of antithesis as be- 
longing to the τὸ σχῆμα τὴς λέξεως, and the others κατὰ τὴν 
διάνοιαν τοῦ λεγομένου ἢ (chap. ii. 6; ix. 7.) 

Enumerate the ἀστεῖα with which the orator should seek to 
grace his speech. 


CHAP. XI. 


How does metaphor differ from personification ? 

You have stated that such metaphors are most approved as 
are not too obvious; how will an orator avoid this fault in 
the selection of his metaphors, and at the same time render 
them more approved ? (vi.) 

When will a sentence be more elegant ? 

Do I understand you to say in proportion as it contains 8 
greater number of these ornaments ? 

Are hyperboles and proverbs ever metaphors ? 

Do these contribute to the elegance of a sentence ? 


373 ANALYTICAL QUESTIONS. 


Does the use of hyperbole become the young as well as the 
old! 


CHAP, XII. 


What distinction of style does Aristotle first make when he 
wishes to ascertain the kind of style most adapted to each spe- 
cies of oration ? 

How many species of the λέξις ἀγωνιστικὴ are there ? 

To which species of oration are the λέξις ἤθικη and παθητέκη 
most adapted ? 

Which of the two species of oration, the judicial or deli- 
berative, require the greatest accuracy of style? 

Does the λέξις ἀγωνιστικὴ Suit the demonstrative species ? 

Is nicety and precision essential in the judicial species, and 
what is the objection to too great nloety and precision in the 
deliberative species ? | 


! However ready we may be to acknowledge the wonderful acuteness 
and subtlety of Aristotle’s mind, in unfolding the whole art of rhetoric, 
his judgment of true wit, from the samples afforded in this chapter, con- 
vinces us, that he was a more profound philosopher than agreeable com- 
panion. We have therefore, perhaps prudently, refrained from noticing 
the witty spplivations of metaphor and hyperbole, which he has made, as 
some general questions on the λέξεις will be subsequently introduced. 


GENERAL QUESTIONS 


ON THE 


SECOND PART OF RHETORIC. 


In treating of the λέξις does Aristotle propose to consider first 
its nature and the matter of which it is formed ? 
In doing this does he consider, 
Ist. ‘The matter of which it is composed as words ; 
2nd. Its forms—of which one is the essential or modifi- 
cation of the matter, by which it becomes adapted to 
its purpose of effecting persuasion ; and another, which 
| is the accidental, or the figure, or modification of the 
matter, by which it becomes adapted to its purpose of 
pleasing the ear: 
3rd. Of the ἀστεῖον, or introduction of metaphor, apo- 
thegm, and wit ἢ 
Aristotle has hitherto treated of the nature of style and its 
modifications ; what does he secondly, and lastly, propose to 
consider ? 


CHAP. XIII. 


Enumerate the τά μέρη of orations. | 

Why does Aristotle object to more than the πρόθεσις and 
πίστις ? 

How many and what are the ra μέρη which Aristotle 
treats of ? 

Why has he treated of them when he set out with object- 
ing to them ? | 


380 GENERAL QUESTIONS 


To which cf the species of oration is the διήγησις peculiar ? 

Does the deliberative species always require as many parts 
as the judicial? and which are the parts which it does not 
require ? 

When does it require the προοίμιον (xiv. 11) ἀντιπαραβολὴ 
and ἐπάνοδος ? 

Is the ἐπίλογος always necessary in the judicial species ὃ 

Of how many parts will a judicial oration delivered by an 
accuser be composed ? 

Under which of these parts is the ra πρὸς αντίδικον or re- 
futation, and the ἀντιπαραβολὴ or contrast of arguments, in- 
cluded when the oration is delivered by an accused ? 

Why should they not be included in the προοέμιο» or ἐπίέ- 
λογος ? (4.) 


CHAP. XIV. 


Give the definition of προοίμιον. 

From what sources are the προοίμια in the demonstrative 
species drawn ? (2.) 

What ought to be the chief object of a judicial προοίμιον ? (6.) 

From what sources are judicial προοίμια drawn ἕ 

Who is most likely to draw the matter of his προοίμιον ἐκ 
-ov \éyovroc—the accuser or accused ? 

Turn to the oration against Verres (Act. Sec. Lib. iii.) and 
tell me from which of the sources Cicero’s exordium is drawn. 

In which of the parts of a judicial oration, delivered by an 
accused, would the orator be most likely to have recourse to 
the πίστεις ἐν τῶ ἤθει τοῦ λέγοντος ? 

Are they admissible in all parts ? 

In which part of the oration does the accuser introduce the 
τὰ πρὸς διαβολήν ? 

What is the objection to their being mentioned in the προ- 
οίἰμιον ἢ ? 

In which part of the oration does the accused reply to the 
τὰ πρὸς διαβολήν f ? 

What is the orator’s object when his προοίμιον is drawn ἐκ 
τοῦ axpoarou? (7.) 


Dees the deliberative species always require the προοίμιον ? 


ON ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 38] 


CHAP. XV. 


The reader is referred to Hobbes’ Brief for the τόποι on 
this chapter. 


CHAP, XVI. 


What kind of διήγησις does Aristotle prefer in the demon- 
strative species of oration ? 

May the proof and amplification be blended in this species ? 
(vide Riccobon in cap. xvi. hujus libri.) . 

What is the objection to a continuous διήγησις (ἐφεξῆς) in 
this species ? 

In a judicial oration should the διήγησις be ἐφεξῆς or κατὰ 
μέρος ? 

What matter does the accuser naturally relate in his διή- 
γησις ? (iv. line 6.) 

How does the διήγησις of an accused differ from an ac- 
cuser’s ? 

What relation is there between the διήγησις and the riaric!? 

On what points should an accused refrain from dwelling, 
and when should both the accuser and the accused dilate on 
circumstances in the διήγησις ἢ (8.) 

Is it of consequence to the orator to vest himself with 
moral character, and to adapt his διήγησις to the πίστις, in 
order that the one may support the other. 

Is it of consequence to the orator to vest himself with mo- 
ral character, (7,) and ought he to do this at the commence- 
ment of his διήγησις ? (10.) 


1 Quoniam narratio est rerum explicatio, et quedam quasi sedes ac 

fundamentum constituende fidei, ea sunt in ea servanda maxime, que 
etiam in reliquis dicendi partibus, que partim sunt necessaria, partim as- 
sumta ad ornandum. 
- Nam ut dilucide probabiliterque narremus, necessarium est; sed 
assumimus etiam suavitatem. Probabilis autem narratio erit, si personis, 
si temporibus, si locis ea, quee narrabuntur, consentient ; si cujusque facti 
et eventi causa ponetur, si testata dici videbuntur, si cum hominum opi- 
nione, auctoritate, si cum lege, cum more, cum religione conjuncta, si 
probitas narrantis significabitur, si antiquitas, si memoria, si orationis 
veritas, et vite fides. Suavis autem narratio est, que habet admira- 
tiones, exitus inopinatos, interpositos motus animorum, colloquia person- 
arum, dolores, iracundias, metus, letitias, cupiditates. ‘Cicero, de Orator. 
Partit. 


382 GENERAL QUESTIONS ᾿ 


Does the deliberative species of orations require a διήγησις ? 
When is ἃ διήγησις used in this species ? 
When it is used has it the resemblance to the παράδειγμα ὃ 


CHAP. XVII. 


What are the four questions for proof in an accuser’s ora- 
tion? 

Has the διήγησις previously prepared the judge? 

Can you repeat the division which Aristotle made of 
ἐγκλήματα in the first book, (chap. xiii. 7,) and reconcile it 
with the questions to be proved by an accused as stated in 
this chapter, viz. 

either ὅτι οὗ γέγονεν 
or ὅτι οὐκ ἔβχλαβε 
Or ὅτι οὐτόσονδε, ἢ ὅτι δικαίως ? ' 

‘Suppose the accuser charges the accused with a deliberative 
injury, what cause will he assign for the action done? (Book 
I. chap. 10.) 

Suppose the accused is compelled by weight of testimony 
to acknowledge the commission of the act and hurt done, but 
denies the προαίρεσις : if he proved that the act was done μὴ 
é¢ αὗτον or ἐξ avayxne,—would it be a refutation of the ac- 
cuser!? (vide Book I. chap. x. 6.) 

Suppose the accused acknowledges the act to have been 
done, and that act to have been hurtful, but denies the 
προαίρεσις, on which points will he dwell in the refutation ? 

What do you mean by refutation,” and is the refutation in 
a measure different from proof ? 

What chiefly constitutes proof in the demonstrative spe- 
cies? (3.) 

What species of the πίστις διὰ τοῦ δείκνυναι is mostly used 
in the deliberative ? 

‘ Aut jure factum, depellendi aut ulsciscendi doloris gratia, aut pietatis, 
aut pudicitie, aut religionis, aut patrie nomine, aut denique necessitate, 
inscitia, casue Nam que motu animi et perturbatione facta sine ratione 
sunt, ea defensionem contra crimen, in legitimis judiciis, non habent, in 
liberis disceptationibus habere possunt. Cic. Orat. Partit. 

? Ea que ad fidem faciendam pertinent in confirmationem et reprehen- 
sionem dividuntur. In confirmando nostra probare volumus ; in repre- 
hendendo redarguere contraria. Quoniam igitur omne quod. in contro- 


versiam venit, id aut sit, necne sit, aut quid sit, aut quale sit, queritur 
primo conjectura, in altero definitio, in tertia ratio. Cic. Orat. Partit. 


ON ARISTOTLE 5 RHETORIC. 383 


Do you recollect any precepts which Aristotle gives on the 
use of enthymems as proofs ? 

Why should they not be used when the orator seeks to ex- 
cite the passions ? 

Why should they not be used é¢effc, or in a continued 
series ? 

To which of the three distinctions of πέστεις in the first 
‘book, and to which species does Aristotle reduce the ra πρὸς 
divides 

How is the refutation effected by enthymenn ? (Book II. 
chap. xxv. 1.) 

Ought not an accuser to notice the objections which the 
accused is likely to bring forward before he states his own? 
_ Why should he not, and when is a violation of this order 
unobjectionable ? 

Ought the accused to refute his adversary before intro- 
ducing his own proofs? 

What reason can you assign for this order in the proof ? 

Are γνώμαι admissible as proofs, and which species is the 
best ? (Vide Book II. chap. xxi.) 


CHAP. XVIII. 


Can you mention any cases in which the orator may inter-. 
rogate with success ? 

Is the ἐρώτησις prudent on every question, and when is it 
not ? 

What answer is the best to an equivocal ἐρώτησις ? 

What distinction does Aristotle make between εἰρωνεία and 
βωμολοχία ? 


CHAP. XIX. 


What does the orator propose to do in the ἐπίλογος ? 

Why should an accuser prefer the ἐπίλογος to the other 
parts of the oration, for exciting the passions and prejudices 
of his audience against his adversary ? 

Which part of the oration of an accused is opposed to the 
ἐπίλογος of an accuser ? 

In what kind of judicial cases will the ἀνάμνησις be used 
instead of τὸ εἰς ra πάθη τὸ; ἀκροατῆν κατασ-ῆσαι ὃ 


384 GENERAL QUESTIONS. 


Will every case admit of the excitement of the passions in 
the ἐπίλογος ? 

What kind of cases require the excitement of anger, hatred, 
and pity ? 

Is it necessary to the excitement of anger in the ἐπίλογος, 
that the orator should show in the πίστις that his adversary 
has acted with the ὀλιγωρία and its species ? 

Why is it? | 

Do I understand you to say because these are the στοιχεῖα 
out of which anger is excited ? (vide Book II. chap. ii.) 

Why does the conciliation of the hearer in the ἐπίλογος 
naturally follow the πέστις ? 

Why does amplification and extenuation naturally follow 
the τὸ κατασκευάσαι εὖ τὸν ἀκροατῆν ? 

Should the ἀνάμνησις be long or brief ? 


APPENDIX 


TO THE 


ANALYSIS OF ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC, 


CONTAINING THE ORIGINAL DEFINITIONS. 


BOOK I. 


I.—1. RueErtoric corresponds with Logic, since ἀμφότεραι 
περὶ τοιούτων τινῶν εἰσιν, ἃ κοινὰ τρόπον τινὰ. ἁπάντων ἐστ' 
γνωρίζειν, καὶ οὐδεμιᾶς ἐπιστήμης ἀφωρισμένης. 

2. But since men do it not only εἰκῆ, but also διὰ συνήθειαν, 
ἀπὸ ἕξεως, εἴη ἂν αὐτὸ καὶ ὁδοποιεῖν, and therefore τὴν airiay θεω- 
ρεῖν ἐνδέχεται. Consequently, there must be an art of Rhetoric. 

3. But previous writers have done but little towards it, for . 
ai πίστεις ἔντεχνόν ἐστι μόνον" τὰ δ᾽ ἄλλα προσθῆκαι, and they 
have neglected enthymems, ὅπερ ἐστὶ σῶμα τῆς πίστεως. 

4, But appeals to the passions, οὐ περὶ τοῦ πράγματός ἐστιν, 

5. ἀλλὰ πρὸς τὸν δικαστήν" which is unjust, and avoided by 
the Areopagus. 

6. The business of the pleader is only with the fact, ὅτι 
ἔστιν ἢ οὐκ ἔστιν, i} γέγονεν ἢ ov γέγονεν" not with the question 
of its importance. 

7. Laws would therefore be best, if they could mark out 
(dcopiZery) all cases, and leave but little to the judges, both 
on account of the difficulty of getting many good men to legis- 
late, and because ai μὲν νομοθεσίαι ἐκ πολλοῦ σκεψαμένων γί- 
γνονται" αἱ δὲ κρίσεις ἐξ ὑπογύου" and because the legislator 
does not judge for the present and particular case, but for the 
future and universal, and is therefore free from prejudice or 
passion. 

9. Therefore the exordium, narrative, etc. have nothing to 
do with the art, as all that aims at making the judge ποιόν τινα, 

2c 


386 APPENDIX TO THE ANALYSIS 


10. Although δημηγορικὴ is superior to δικανικὴ, all men 
prefer the latter, because it best admits of superfluity and false 
reasoning. 

11. Now ἡ μὲν ἔντεχνος μέθοδος περὶ τὰς πίστεις ἐστίν" ἡ δὲ 
πίστις, ἀπόδειξίς τις" ἔστι δ᾽ ἀπόδειξις ῥητορικὴ, ἐνθύμημα" καὶ 
ἔστι τοῦτο, ὡς εἰπεῖν ἁπλῶς, κυριώτατον τῶν πίστεων" τὸ δὲ ἐνθύ- 
pnpa, συλλογισμὸς τις δῆλον δ᾽, ὅτι ὁ μάλιστα τοῦτο δυνάμενος 
θεωρεῖν, ἐκ τίνων καὶ πῶς γίγνεται συλλογισμὸς, οὗτος καὶ ἐνθυ- 
μηματικὸς ἂν εἴη μάλιστα. But he must also know not Logic 
only, but the subjects (περὶ ποῖα) enthymems are, and their 
differences from the syllogisms of Logic. For τό re ἀληθὲς, 
kal τὸ ὅμοιον τῷ ἀληθεῖ, τῆς αὐτῆς ἐστι δυνάμεως ἰδεῖν" and from 
a natural aptness to discover truth, man has an aptness in 
conjecturing probabilities. 

12. Rhetoric is useful, 1. διὰ τὸ φύσει εἶναι κρείττω τἀ- 
ληθῆ καὶ τὰ δίκαια τῶν ἐναντίων. 2. because, on account of 
the unscientific character of some hearers, ἀνάγκη διὰ τῶν κοι- 
γῶν ποιεῖσθαι τὰς πίστεις Kal Tove λόγους" 8. τἀναντία δεῖ. δύ- 
νασθαι πείθειν, καθάπερ καὶ ἐν τοῖς συλλογισμοῖς, in order to 
confute ἄλλον χρώμενον μὴ δικαίως τοῖς λόγοις αὐτοῖς, which 
Dialectic and Rhetoric alone can do. 4. ἄτοπον, εἰ τῷ σώματι 
μὲν αἰσχρὸν μὴ δύνασθαι βοηθεῖν ἑαυτῷ, λόγῳ δ᾽ οὐκ αἰσχρόν" ὃ 
μᾶλλον ἴδιόν ἐστιν ἀνθρώπου τῆς τοῦ σώματος χρείας. 

18. The improper use of Rhetoric is an objection com- 
mon to all things except ἀρετή. 

14. The business of Rhetoric οὐ τὸ πεῖσαι, ἀλλὰ τὸ ἰδεῖν, τὰ 
πιθανὰ, and both τὸ πιθανὸν, καὶ τὸ φαινόμενον πεθανον, as in 
Dialectic. ἡ γὰρ σοφιστικὴ οὐκ ἐν τῇ δυνάμει, ἀλλ᾽ ἐν τῇ προαι- 
ρέσε. Βαυΐῦ' ἴῃ Rhetoric ἔσται ὁ μὲν κατὰ τὴν ἐπιστήμην, ὃ δὲ 
κατὰ τὴν προαίρεσιν, ῥήτωρ" but in Dialectic, σοφιστὴς μὲν κατὰ 
τὴν προαίρεσιν, διαλεκτικὸς δὲ οὗ κατὰ τὴν προαίρεσιν, ἀλλὰ κατὰ 
τὴν δύναμιν. 

II.—1. Rhetoric is defined to be δύναμις περὶ ἕκαστον τοῦ 
θεωρῆσαι τὸ ἐνδεχόμενον πιθανόν" and that on any given sub- 
ject (περὶ τοῦ δοθέντος). 

2, Τῶν δὲ πίστεων αἱ μὲν ἄτεχνοί εἰσιν, αἱ δὲ ἔντεχνοι' ἄτεχνα 
δὲ λέγω, ὅσα μὴ δι ἡμῶν πεπόρισται, ἀλλὰ προῦπῆρχεν᾽ οἷον 
μάρτυρες, βάσανοι, συγγραφαὶ, καὶ ὅσα τοιαῦτα" ἔντεχνα δὲ, ὅσσ 
διὰ τὴς μεθόδου καὶ Ov ἡμῶν κατασκευασθῆναι δυνατόν" ὥστε δεὶ 
τούτων τοῖς μὲν. χρήσασθαι, τὰ δὲ εὑρεῖν. 

3. The ἔντεχνοι πίστεις are of three kinds. 1. ἐν τῷ ἤθει 


OF ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 387 


τοῦ λέγοντος" 2. ἐν τῷ τὸν ἀκροατὴν διαθεῖναί πως" 3. ἐν αὐτῷ 
τῷ λόγῳ. 

4, The first takes place when the speaker makes himself 
appear worthy of credit ; the second, when the hearer is ex- 
cited with any feeling ; the third, when a real or apparent 
truth is shown. 

7. Rhetoric is οἷον παραφυές τι τῆς Διαλεκτικῆς, καὶ τῆς περὶ 
τὰ ἤθη πραγματείας (i. 6. πολιτικῆς). 

8. The means of persuading are either ἐνθύμημα = ῥητορικὸς 
συλλογισμὸς, OF παράδειγμα --Ξ ῥητορικὴ ἐπαγωγή, by one of 
which all men persuade. 

9. Now, to show ὅτι ἐπὶ πολλῶν καὶ ὁμοίων, οὕτως ἔχει, in 
Logic is ἐπαγωγή, but in Rhetoric παράδειγμα" but that, τίνῶν 
ὄντων, ἕτερόν τι διὰ ταῦτα συμβαίνειν παρὰ ταῦτα τῷ ταῦτα εἶναι, 
ἣ καθόλου, ἣ ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ πολὺ, is in Logic called συλχογισμὸς, but 
in Rhetoric ἐνθύμημα. 

10. Although example is often used, yet enthymematic 
reasonings are most applauded (θορυβοῦνται). 

11. As in medicine, universals are alone considered by Rhe- 
toric, and it is ἐκ τῶν ἤδη βουλεύεσϑαι εἰωθότων. 

12. As the reader is supposed to be ἁπλοῦς, the ἀσυλλόγιστα 
are better than the συλλελογισμένα, for the latter are not εὐπα- 
ρακολούθητα διὰ τὸ μῆκος. 

18. We can only reason from τὰ ἐνδεχόμενα ὡς τὰ πολλὰ 
ἔχειν καὶ ἄλλως. 

14. But as there are but few ἀναγκαῖα which form rhetorical 
syllogisms, they are generally contingent (we ἐπὶ τὸ πολύ). 
Hence ἐνθυμήματα are said to be ἐξ εἰκότων καὶ ἐκ σημείων" 
But εἰκὸς is ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ πολὺ γιγνόμενον" οὐχ ἁπλῶς δὲ" ἀλλὰ τὸ 
περὶ τὰ ἐνδεχόμενα ἄλλως ἔχειν οὕτως ἔχον πρὸς ἐκεῖνο, πρὸς ὃ 
εἰκὸς, ὡς τὸ καθόλου πρὸς τὸ κατὰ μέρος. But of σήμεια, the 
one οὕτως ἔχει, ὡς τῶν καθ᾽ ἕκαστόν τι πρὸς τὸ καθόλου" but the 
other ὡς τῶν καθόλου τι πρὸς τὸ κατὰ μέρος" and of these the 
ἀναγκαῖον is called τεκμήριον but the μὴ ἀναγκαῖον has no 
name to distinguish it.* 

19. But παράδειγμα 1 is an ἐπαγώγη, but ἃ ὡς “μέρος πρὸς μέρος. 
ὅμοιον πρὸς ὅμοιον, ὅταν ἄμφω μὲν ἦ ὑπὸ τὸ ἀυτὸ γενος, γνωρι- 
μώτερον δὲ θάτερον ἦ θατέρου. 


* The best explanation of the difficulties of this passage will be found 
in Mansell’s Logic, Appendix, note E. Some useful illustrations will 
also be found in the notes to the translation, pp. 17—21. 

2c2z 


3&8 APPENDIX TO THE ANAL SIS 


21. Those syllogisms are properly logical and rhetorical, 
which are of equal extent with the arts themselves, in refer- 
ence to which the τόποι are used. For these are common 
περὶ πολλῶν διαφερόντων εἴδει, SUCh as lesser and greater, etc. 
But the εἴδη are confined to their respective subjects ; thus 
there are προτάσεις concerning physics, that are of no use in 
morals, etc. 

The τόποι convey no specific knowledge, as they are περὶ 
οὐδὲν ὑποκείμενον, but the εἴδη, if well selected, will gradually 
produce a science distinct from the Dialectic and Rhetoric. 

22. "Evdn = ai καθ᾽ ἕκαστον γένος ἴδιαι προτάσεις. 

Τόποι = αἱ κοιναὶ ὁμοίως πάντων. 

111.---ΞἸ. There are three εἴδη of Rhetoric, as there are three 
kinds of hearers, and the speech consists of three things ; 1, 
ὁ λέγων. 2. περὶ ov λέγει. 3. πρὸς ὅν. 

2. The hearer is either θεωρὸς περὶ τῆς δυνάμεως, (the skill of 
the orator,) or κριτὴς, i.e. κριτὴς ἢ τῶν γεγενημένων, ἢ τῶν 
μελλόντων, the latter being ἐκκλησιαστὴς, the former δικαστής. 

3. Hence oratory is thus divided :— 


Business. Time. End. 
προτροπὴ 0 μέλλων. συμφέρον 

1. συμβουλευτικὴ and and 
᾿ἀποτροπὴ. βλαβερόν. 
κατηγορία ὁ γενόμενος. δίκαιον 

2, δικανικὴ and and 
ἀπολογία. ἄδικον. 
ἔπαινος ὁ παρὼν, butsome- καλὸν 

8. ἐπὶδεικτικὴ or times the others and 
ψόγος. by recollection or αἰσχρόν 

anticipation. 


8. In all three kinds we must have propositions on δυνατὸν 
and ἀδύνατον, εἰ γέγονεν, ἣ μη, ὅτι μέγα ἢ μικρὸν, δίκαιον ἣ 
ἄδικον, καλὸν ἢ αἰσχρόν, etc. 

IV.—1. Excluding ἀδύνατα, ἀναγκαῖα, and ἀπὸ τύχης γε- 
νομενα ἀγαθὰ, Aristotle enumerates five things περὶ ὧν συμ- 
βουλεύονται πάντες. 1. πόροι. 2. πόλεμος καὶ εἰρήνη. 8. φυ- 
λακὴ τῆς χώρας. 4. εἰσαγόμενα καὶ ἐξαγόμενα. ὅ. νομοθεσία. 
Then follow the εἴδη of each, and the knowledge necessary 
and useful.* 


* As these are fully enumerated by Hobbes, I shall here omit them, 
as in all similar cases, 


” el δϑὲώ..»Ψὕ.; 


Ee Cl 


—— wT  Ύ νυ. 


OF ARISTOTLE’S RHETOKIC. 389 


V.—1. As to the Epideictic orator, εὐδαιμονία is his aim, 
περὶ γὰρ ταύτης, Kal τῶν εἰς ταύτην συντεινόντων, καὶ τῶν ἐναν- 
τίων ταύτῃ, αἱ τε προτροπαὶ καὶ αἱ ἀποτροπαὶ πᾶσαί εἶσι. 

3. But εὐδαιμονία is, Istly, εὐπραξία μετὰ ἀρετῆς 2Qndly, 
αὐταρκεία ζωῆς" 3rdly, ὁ βίος ὁ μετὰ ἀσφαλείας ἥδιστος" Athly, 
εὐσθένεια κτημάτων καὶ σωμάτων, pera δυνάμεως φυλακτικῆς τε 
καὶ πρακτικῆς τούτων. 

4. Now he is αὐταρκέστατος, ᾧ ὑπάρχει τά τ᾽ ἐν αὐτῷ, καὶ τὰ 
ἐκτὸς ἀγαθά. Ἔστι δὲ ἐν αὐτῷ μὲν, τὰ περὶ ψυχὴν, καὶ τὰ ἐν 
σώματι" ἔξω δὲ, εὐγένεια, καὶ φίλοι, καὶ χρήματα, καὶ τιμή" 

7. The parts of wealth are νομίσματος πλῆθος, γῆς, χωρίων 
κτῆσις" ἔτι δὲ, ἐπίπλων κτῆσις καὶ βοσκημάτων καὶ ἀνδραπόδων 
πλήθει καὶ μεγέθει καὶ κάλλει διαφερόντων. And all these must 
be ἀσφαλῆ καὶ ἐλευθέρια καὶ χρήσιμα. But the most useful are 
τὰ κάρπιμα" the liberal, τὰ πρὸς ἀπόλαυσιν. And they are 
κάρπιμα ἀφ᾽ ὧν ai πρόσοδοι" but ἀπολαυστικὰ, ἀφ᾽ ὧν μηδὲν παρὰ 
τὴν χρῆσιν γίγνεται, 6 τι καὶ ἄξιον. ᾿Ασφαλεία consists in pos- 
sessing wealth ὥστ᾽ ἐφ᾽ αὑτῷ εἶναι τὴν χρῆσιν αὐτῶν. 

8. Εὐδοξία, τὸ ὑπὸ πάντων σπουδαῖον ὑπολαμβάνεσθαι. 

9. Τιμὴ, σημεῖον εὐεργετικῆς δόξης. 

Evepyecia, ἣ εἰς σωτηριαν, καὶ ὅσα αἴτια τοῦ εἶναι, ἣ εἰς 
πλοῦτον, ἣ εἴς τι τῶν ἄλλων ἀγαθῶν. 

12. ᾿ἸΙσχὺς, δύναμις τοῦ κινεῖν ἕτερον, ὡς βούλεται. 

15. Evynpia, βραδυτὴς γήρως μετ᾽ ἀλυπίας. 

16. Φίλος, ὅστις, ἃ οἴεται ἀγαθὰ εἶναι ἐκείνῳ, πρακτικός ἐστιν 
αὐτῶν de ἐκεῖνον. A man who possesses many such, enjoys 
πολυφιλία and χρηστοφιλία. 

17. Evruyia δὲ ἔστιν, ὧν ἣ τύχη ἀγαθῶν αἰτία, ταῦτα γίγνε- 
σθαι καὶ ὑπάρχειν 7} πάντα, ἢ τὰ πλεῖστα, ἣ τὰ μέγιστα. 

18. As ἀρετὴ is most closely connected with ἔπαινος, Aris- 
totle proceeds to τὰ πρὸς τὸ τέλος of deliberative oratory. 

VI.—1. And these are ra συμφέροντα πρὸς τὰς πράξε:ς, τὸ 
δὲ συμφέρον ἀγαθὸν, which must therefore be considered. 
᾿Αγαθὸν is defined to be ὃ ἂν αὐτὸ ἑαυτοῦ ἕνεκα 7 αἱρετόν" καὶ 
οὗ ἕνεκα ἄλλο αἱρούμεθα" καὶ οὗ ἐφίεται πάντα, ἢ πάντα τὰ αἴ- 
σθησιν ἔχοντα, ἣ νοῦν, ἢ εἰ λάβοι νοῦν" καὶ ὅσα ὁ νοῦς ἂν ἑκάστῳ 
ἀποδοίη" καὶ ὅσα 6 περὶ ἕκαστον. 

3. And goods follow ἣ ἅμα, ἢ ὕστερον. A copious enumer- 
ation of the τόποι next follows, for which see Hobbes. 

18. Enumeration of τὰ ἀμφισβητήσιμα ἀγαθά. 

VII.—1. In order to enumerate the τόποι of comparative 


390 APPENDIX TO THE ANALYSIS 


good and expediency, which the deliberative orator must dis- 
cuss, Aristotle defines ὑπερέχον, τοσοῦτον, καὶ ἔπι' and ὑπερε- 
Xopevor, TO ἐνυπάρχον. Observing, μεῖζον μὲν ἀεὶ καὶ πλεῖον 
πρὸς ἔλαττον" μέγα δὲ καὶ μικρὸν, καὶ πολὺ καὶ ὀλίγον, πρὸς τὸ 
τῶν πολλῶν μέγεθος" καὶ ὑπερέχον μὲν, τὸ μέγα" τὸ δὲ ἐλλεῖπον, 
μικρόν" καὶ πολὺ καὶ ὀλίγον ὡσαύτως. Then follow the τύποι. 
See Hobbes. 

VIII.—1. To be able πείθειν καὶ καλῶς συμβουλεύειν, one 
ought to be able τὰς πολιτείας ἁπάσας λαβεῖν, καὶ τὰ ἑκάστης 
ἔθη, καὶ νόμιμα, καὶ συμφέροντα διελεῖν. For, 1. πείθονται πάν- 
τες τῷ συμφέροντι. 2. κυρία ἡἣ τοῦ κυρίου ἀπόφανσις. 

8. There are four πολιτεῖαι, δημοκρατία, ὀλιγαρχία,. ἀρισ- 
τοκρατία, μοναρχία" so that the ruling and judicial functions 
will be one part of these or the whole. But δημοκρατία i is de- 
fined, πολιτεία, ἐ ἐν a κλήρῳ διανέμονται τὰς ἀρχάς" ὀλιγαρχία, 
ἐν ἡ οἱ ἀπὸ τιμημάτων" ἀριστοκρατία, ἐν 7) οἱ κατὰ παιδείαν. 
But. by παιδεία 1 mean τὴν ὑπὸ τοῦ γόμου κειμένην. But μον- 
«ρχία is that, ἐν ἡ εἷς ἁπάντων κύριός ἐστι and ἡ ἡ μὲν κατὰ τάξιν 
τινὰ, is called βασιλεία" but ἡ ἀόριστος, τυραννίς. 

5. Their respective τέλη are, 


Of δημοκρατία, ἐλευθερία. 
ὀλιγαρχία, πλοῦτος. 
ἀριστοκρατία, τὰ περὶ παιδείαν καὶ τὰ νόμιμα. 
τυραννίδος, φυλακή. 


IX.—1. But as ethical character is also necessary in the 
speaker, and as virtue and vice are the objects of the Epi- 
deictic orator, and also enable us to appear ποιοί τινες κατὰ TO 
ἦθος, Which is the second πίστις ἔντεχνος, We must thoraiee 
define thus: 

3. Καλὸν, ὃ ὃ ἂν ov αὑτὸ αἱρετὸν ὃν ἐπαινετὸν 7 ἢ ὃ ἂν ἀγα- 
θὸν ὃν ἡδὺ ἦ, ὅτι ἀγαθόν. And, if so, ἀρετὴ must needs be 
καλὸν" ἀγαθὸν yap ὃν ἐπαινετὸν ἐστιν. 4. But ἀρετὴ is, as it 
seems, δύναμις ποριστικὴ ἀγαθῶν καὶ φυλακτική" καὶ δύναμις 
εὐεργετικὴ πολλῶν καὶ μεγάλων καὶ πάντων περὶ πάντα. 5. Its 
parts are δικαιοσύνη, ἀνδρεία, σωφροσύνη, μεγαλοπρέπεια, μεγα- 
λοψυχία, ἐλευθεριότης, πραότης, φρόνησις, σοφία. 1. Which are 
thus defined: Δικαιοσύνη, ἀρετὴ, rs ἣν τὰ αὑτῶν ἕκαστοι - ἔχουσι, 
καὶ ὡς ὁ νόμος" but ἀδικία, dv ἣν τὰ ἀλλότρια, οὐχ ὡς ὁ νόμος. 
8. ᾿Ανδρεία, oe ἣν πρακτικοί εἰσι τῶν καλῶν ἔργων ἐν τοῖς κινδύ-. 
νοις, καὶ ὡς ὁ "ὑμὸς κελεύει, καὶ ὑπηρετικοὶ τῷ νόμῳ" but δειλέα 
the reverse. 9. Σωφροσύνη, ἀρετὴ, δι᾿ ἣν πρὸς τὰς ἡδενὰς τοῦ 


OF ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 391 


σώματος οὕτως ἔ ἔχουσιν, ὡς ὃ γόμος κελεύει" but ακολασία the 
reverse. 10. Ἐλευθεριότης, περὶ χρήματα εὖ ποιητική" but 
ἀνελευθερία the reverse. 11. Μεγαλοψυχέα, ἀρετὴ μεγάλων 
ποιητικὴ εὐεργετημάτων" but μικροψυχία the reverse. 12. Me- 
γαλοπρέπεια, a ἀρετὴ ἐν δαπανήμασι μεγέθους ποιητική" but μικρο- 
ψυχία and μικροπρέπεια the reverse. 18. Φρόνησις, ἀρετὴ δια- 
νοίας, καθ᾽ ἣν εὖ βουλεύεσθαι δύνανται περὶ ἀγαθῶν καὶ κακῶν 
τῶν εἰρημένων εἰς εὐδαιμονίαν. 

Then follows a copious list of τὰ καλά. 

82. But as praise results from moral action, we must en- 
deavour to show that the person commended has always acted 
κατὰ προαίρεσιν. He defines ἔπαινος, λόγος ἐμφανίζων μέγεθος 
ἀρετῆς. 

35. "Ἔχει δὲ κοινὸν εἶδος ὁ ἔπαινος καὶ αἱ συμβουλαί' ἃ γὰρ 
ἐν τῷ συμβουλεύειν ὑπόθοιο ἂν, ταῦτα, Reeaneriie τῇ Asker, 
ἐγκώμια γίγνεται. 

38. In praise, we may also use ra ἀυξητικὰ, as εἰ μόνος, ἣ 
πρῶτος, ἢ μετ᾽ ὀλίγων, ἢ καὶ ὁ μάλιστα πεποίηκεν. τὰ ἐκ 
τῶν χρόνων καὶ τῶν καιρῶν καὶ εἰ πολλάκις. 

Χ. Judicial Oratory requires us to consider three things, 
ἕν μὲν, τένων, καὶ πόσων ἕνεκα ἀδικοῦσι" δεύτερον δὲ, πῶς αὐτοὶ 
διακείμενοι" τρίτον δὲ, τοὺς ποίους, καὶ πῶς ἔχοντας. 

3. Aristotle then defines τὸ ἀδικεῖν, τὸ βλάπτειν ἑ ἑκόντα παρὰ 
τὸν νόμον. But νόμος is either ἴδιος or κοινός. Ἴδιος is that, 
καθ᾽ ὃν γεγραμμένον πολιτεύονται" but κοινὸς, ὅσα ἄγραφα made 
πᾶσιν ὁμολογεῖσθαι δοκεῖ. Men ἑκόντες, ὅσα εἰδότες, καὶ μὴ 
ἀναγκαζόμενοι. Ὅσα μὲν οὖν ἑκόντες, οὗ πάντα προαιρούμενοι" 
ὅσα δὲ προαιρούμενοι, εἰδότες ἅπαντα" οὐδεὶς γὰρ, ὃ προαιρεῖται, 
ἀγνοεῖ. But the motives through which προαιροῦνται βλάπ- 
τειν, Kal φαῦλα ποιεῖν παρὰ τὸν νόμον, are κακία and ἀκρασία. 

6. The motives of injustice. 


7. Motives of all actions are either 
“ Ὁ ΜῈ 


5“ Ἂν 
dv αὐτοὺς οὗ δὲ αὐτοὺς. 
r — * ¢ A ‘ 
δι᾿ ἔθος de ὄρεξιν διὰ ri ᾿ἐξ ἀνάγκης 


λογιστικὴν ἢ 
ἄλογον, i. 6. 
either through 
βούλησις, ὀργὴ, 
or ἐπιθυμία. 


‘ 


392 APPENDIX TO THE ANALYSIS 


12. Now τὰ ἀπὸ τύχης are τὰ τοιαῦτα γιγνόμενα, ὅσων ἥ. τε 
αἰτία ἀόριστος, καὶ μὴ ἕνεκά του γίγνεται" καὶ μήτε ἀεὶ, μήτε ὡς 
ἐπὶ τὸ πολὺ, μήτε τεταγμένως. 

18.. But τὰ Φύσει, ὅσων ἥ τε αἰτία ἐν αὐτοῖς καὶ τεταγμένη" 
γὰρ ἀεὶ, ἢ ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ πολὺ ὡσαύτως ἀποβαίνει. 

14. Τὰ Big are ὅσα παρ᾽ ἐπιθυμίαν ἣ τοὺς λογισμοὺς γίγνετα 
δι αὐτῶν τῶν πραττόντων. 

15. "Ede δὲ, ὅσα διὰ τὸ πολλάκις πεποιηκέναι ποιοῦσι. 

16. ᾿Δογισμῷ δὲ, 7 τὰ δοκοῦντα συμφέρειν ἐ ἐκ τῶν εἰρημένων dya- 
θῶν, ἢ ὡς τέλος, ἢ ὡς πρὸς τὸ τέλος, ὅταν διὰ τὸ συμφέρο, 
πράττηται. 

17. Διὰ θυμὸν δὲ καὶ ὀργὴν τα τιμωρητικά. 

ες But we must observe that ἡ κόλασις τοῦ πάσχοντος 

ἕνεκά ἐστιν" ἣ δὲ τιμωρία τοῦ ποιοῦντος, ἵνα ἀποπληρωθῇ. 

18. Δι ἐπιθυμίαν δὲ πράττεται, ὅσα φαίνεται ἡδέα. 

XI.—1. Ἡδονὴ is defined to be κίνησις τις τῆς ψυχῆς, καὶ 
κατάστασις ἀθρόα καὶ αἰσθητὴ εἰς τὴν ὑπαρχουσαν φύσιν" λύπη, 
δὲ τοὐναντίον. 

Enumeration of τὰ ἡδέα. 

XII. Πῶς ἔχοντες ἀδικοῦσι, καὶ ποῖα, καὶ ποίους. 

For this chapter, see Hobbes. 

XIII.—. Division of laws into Ἰδιοι and κοινοί, and conse- 
quently of ra ἀδικήματα καὶ δικαιώματα. 

5. Aristotle defines ἀδικεῖσθαι, τὸ ὑπὸ ἑκόντος τὰ ἄδικα was 
yew* adding, τὸ γὰρ ἀδικεῖν ὥρισται πρότερον ἑκούσιον εἶναι. 

11. As there are τῶν δικαίων καὶ τῶν ἀδίκων δύο εἴδη" τὰ 
μὲν γεγραμμένα" τὰ δὲ ἄγραφα" 80, of these latter é ἐστὶ τὰ μὲν 
καθ᾽ ὑπερβολὴν ἀρετῆς καὶ κακίας, ἐφ᾽ οἷς ὀνείδη καὶ ἔπαινοι, καὶ 
ἀτιμίαι καὶ τιμαὶ, καὶ δωρεαί" οἷον, τὸ χάριν ἔχειν τῷ ποιήσαντι 
εὖ, καὶ ἀντευποιεῖν τὸν εὖ ποιήσαντα" but others are τοῦ ἰδίου 
νόμου καὶ γεγραμμένου ἔλλειμμα, 1. 6. ἐπιεικὲς or equity, which 
is defined τὸ mapa τὸν γεγραμμένον νόμον δίκαιον. And this 
happens, τὰ μὲν ἑκόντων, τὰ δὲ ἀκόντων τῶν νομοθετῶν" ἀκόντων 
μὲν, ὅταν: λάθῃ: ἑκόντων δὲ, ὅταν μὴ δύνωνται διορίσαι, ἀλλ᾽ 
ἀναγκαῖον μὲν ἦ καθόλου εἰπεῖν, μὴ ἦ δὲ, ἀλλ᾽ ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ 
πολύ. 

15. And hence ra ἐπιεικῆ are those deeds, ἐφ᾽ οἷς δεῖ συγ- 
γνώμην ἔχειν. 

18. And Equity consists in looking rather to the προαέρεσις 
than the πράξις. 

XIV. Enumeration of the degrees of guilt. See Hobbes. 


ΝΟΥ CO OCC CC ΘΟ: 


OF ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC, 393 


XV.—1. The ἄτεχνοι πίστεις are γόμοι, μάρτυρες, συνθῆκαι, 
βάσανοι, ὅρκοι. 

3. Arguments for the use or opposition of the laws. 

13. Μάρτυρές εἰσι διττοὶ, οἱ μὲν παλαιοὶ, οἱ δὲ πρόσφατοι. 
Καὶ τούτων οἱ μὲν μετέχοντες τοῦ κινδύνου" οἱ δὲ ἐκτός. Παλαιοὶ, 
οἱ ποιηταὶ καὶ οἱ χρησμολόγοι, the former περὶ τῶν γενομένων, 
the latter περὶ τῶν ἐσομένων. 

Also proverbs are μαρτυρία. 

15. Πρόσφατοι, ὅσοι γνώριμοι τὶ κεκρίκασι' χρήσιμοι yap ai 
τούτων κρίσεις τοῖς περὶ τῶν αὐτῶν ἀμφισβητοῦσιν. 

Manner of using or invalidating witnesses. 

20. Use of συνθῆκαι. See Hobbes. 

26. Use of βάσανοι. 

27. In regard to oaths, there is a fourfold division, ἢ yap 
δίδωσι, καὶ λαμβάνει, ἣ οὐδέτερον" ἣ τὸ μὲν, τὸ δ᾽ οὔ" καὶ τούτων 
ἣ δίδωσι μὲν, οὐ λαμβάνει δέ" ἣ λαμβάνει μὲν, δίδωσι δὲ οὐ. 

Manner of using the oath under the different circumstances. 


BOOK II. 


I. Havine discussed deliberative and epideictic oratory, 
Aristotle now turns to judicial, observing: ἕνεκα κρίσεώς ἐστιν 
ἡ ἹῬητορική" καὶ γὰρ τὰς συμβουλὰς κρίνουσι, καὶ ἡ δίκη κρίσις 
ἐστίν" therefore we must not only consider ὅπως ἀποδεικτικὸς 
ἔσται καὶ πιστὸς ὁ λόγος, ἀλλὰ καὶ αὐτὸν ποῖόν τινα καὶ τὸν 
κριτὴν κατασκευάζειν. 

4, And this is chiefly important for the speaker εἰς τὰς 
συμβουλὰς, but for the hearer εἰς τὰς δίκας. For men form 
different opinions according as they are φιλοῦντες, μισοῦντες, 
ὀργιζόμενοι, OF πρᾷάως ἔχοντες, ἐπιθυμοῦντες, ΟΥ̓ εὐέλπιδες. 

ὅ. Τοῦ μὲν οὖν αὐτοὺς εἶναι πιστοὺς τοὺς λέγοντας τρία ἐστὶ 
τὰ αἴτια" τοσαῦτα γάρ ἐστι, Oe ἃ πιστεύομεν ἔξω τῶν ἀποδείξεων. 
Ἔστι δὲ ταῦτα φρόνησις, καὶ ἀρετὴ, καὶ εὔνοια. ' 

7. But how men may appear virtuous and prudent, may be 
learnt from the chapter on virtues. 

But εὐνοία must be derived from a knowledge of τὰ πάθη, 
which are δι᾿ ὅσα μεταβάλλο:τες διαφέρουσι πρὸς τὰς κρίσεις, οἷς 


394 APPENDIX TO THE ANALYSIS 


ἕπεται λύπη καὶ ἡδονή" οἷον, ὀργὴ, ἔλεος, φόβος, Kat ὅσα ἄλλα 
τοιαῦτα, καὶ τὰ τούτοις ἐναντία. Δεῖ δὲ διαιρεῖν [ra] περὲ ἕκαστον 
εἰς τρία" λέγω δ᾽, οἷον wept ὀργῆς, πῶς τε διακείμενοι ὀργίλοι εἰσὶ, 
καὶ τίσιν εἰώθασιν ὀργίζεσθαι, καὶ ἐπὶ ποίοις. 

II. Anger is defined to be ὄρεξις μετὰ λύπης τιμωρίας φαινο- 
μένης διὰ φαινομένην ὀλιγωρίαν τῶν εἰς αὐτὸν, ἣ εἰς αὐτοῦ τινα 
μὴ προσηκόντως.. 2. Thus anger will always be against a par- 
ticular object, and all anger will be accompanied by a certain 
pleasure, ἀπὸ τῆς ἐλπίδος τοῦ τιμωρήσασθαι. 3. ἡ ὀλιγωρία 
ἔστιν ἐνέργεια δόξης περὶ τὸ μηδενὸς ἄξιον φαινόμενον" but 
there are three kinds of ὀλιγωρία, καταφρόνησις, Wi aa 
and ὕβρις. 

For the enumeration of the feelings and objects of anger, 
see Hobbes. 

IIL.—1. As τῷ ὀργίζεσθαι ἐναντίον τὸ πραὔνεσθαι, Aristotle 
defines πράνσις, κατάστασις καὶ ἠρέμησις ὀργῆς. 

IV.—1. He now defines τὸ φιλεῖν, τὸ βούλεσθαί τινι, ἃ οἴεται 
ἀγαθὰ, ἐκείνου ἕνεκα, ἀλλὰ μὴ αὑτοῦ, καὶ τὸ κατὰ δύναμιν πρακ- 

‘ 1 ΄ , 39. ν᾿ 4 «ε ~ Ἁ 9 ’ 
τικὸν εἶναι τούτων. Φίλος δ᾽ ἐστὶν ὁ φιλῶν καὶ ἀντιφιλούμενος. 
So it follows, φίλον εἶναι τὸν συνηδόμενον τοῖς ἀγαθοῖς, καὶ 
συναλγοῦντα τοῖς λυπηροῖς, μὴ διὰ τὶ ἕτερον, ἀλλὰ δέ ἐκεῖνον. 

After enumerating τοὺς φιλοῦντας καὶ μισοῦντας, Aristotle 
observes, ποιητικὰ ἔχθρας, ὀργὴ, ἐπηρεασμὸς, διαβολή. 

81, ᾿Ὀργὴ μὲν οὖν ἐστιν ἐκ τῶν πρὸς ¢ αὐτόν" ἔχθρα δὲ καὶ ἄνευ 
τοῦ πρὸς αὑτόν" and ἡ μὲν ὀργὴ det πρὸς τὰ καθ᾽ ἕκαστα' τὸ δὲ 
μῖσος καὶ πρὸς τὰ γένη And all λυπηρὰ are αἰσθητὰ, but τὰ 
μάλιστα κακὰ, ἥκιστα αἰσθητὰ, as ἀδικία and ἀφροσύνη. 

V. --Ἱ. Φόβος is λύπη τις ἣ ταραχὴ ἐκ φαντασίας μέλλοντος 
κακοῦ ἣ φθαρτικοῦ, ἣ 7 λυπηροῦ" and φοβερὰ, ὅσα φαίνεται δύναμιν 
ἔχειν μεγάλην τοῦ φθείρειν, ἣ βλάπτειν βλάβας εἰς λύπην μεγά- 
Any συντεινούσαςο. 

16. After enumerating the feelings and objects of fear, 
Aristotle remarks of confidence, τό τε θάρσος ἐναντίον τῷ 
φόβῳ, καὶ τὸ θαῤῥαλέον τῷ φοβερῷ" ὥστε μετὰ φαντασίας ἡ ἐλπὶς 
τῶν “σωτηρίων, ὡς ἐγγὺς ὄντων" τῶν δὲ φοβερῶν ἢ μὴ ὄντων, ἣ 
πόῤῥω ὄντων. 

ΥΙ.---2, Αἰσχύνη is λύπη τις καὶ ταραχὴ περὶ τὰ εἰς ἀδοξίαν 
φαινόμενα φέρειν τῶν κακῶν, ἢ παρόντων, ἢ γεγονότων, ἣ μεὰ- 
λόντων. But Hai ay: ὀλιγωρία τις καὶ ἀπάθεια περὶ τὰ 
αὐτὰ ταῦτα. 


VIL. Aristotle detines χάρις, καθ᾽ ἣν ὁ ὁ ἔχων λέγεται χάριν 


Ee 


- OF ARISTOTLE S RHETORIC, 395 


ὑτσευργεῖν τῷ δεομένῳ, μὴ ἀντὶ τινὺὴς, μηδ᾽ ἵνα τι abry τῳ ὑπουρ- 


γοῦντι, ἀλλ᾽ ἵνα τι ἐκείνῳ. 

δ. We may do away with obligation on the grounds ἣ ἢ Ore 
αὑτῶν ἕνεκα ὑπηρετοῦσιν, ἢ ὑπηρέτησαν" ἢ ὅτι ἀπὸ τύχης συνέ- 
πεσεν, κι Ts Ne 

VIII. Ἔλεος is λύπη τις ἐπὶ φαινομένῳ κακῷ φθαρτικῷ καὶ 
λυπηρῷ τοῦ ἀναξίου τυγχάνειν, ὁ κἂν αὐτὸς προσδοκήσειεν ἂν πα- 
θεῖν, ἢ τῶν αὐτοῦ τινα καὶ τοῦτο, ὅταν πλησίον φαίνηται. 

8. ᾿Ελεεινὰ are ὅσα τῶν λυπηρῶν καὶ ὀδονηρῶν φθαρτικά. 

IX. But to pity is particularly opposed τὸ νεμεσᾷν᾽ τῷ γὰβ 
λυπεῖσθαι ἐπὶ ταῖς ἀναξίαις κακοπραγίαις ἀντικείμενόν ἐστι τρό- 
πον τινὰ, καὶ ἀπὸ τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἤθους, τὸ λυπεῖσθαι ἐπὶ ταῖς ἀναξἕ- 
ἰαις εὐπραγίαις" καὶ ἄμφω τὰ πάθη ἤθους χρηστοῦ. 2. Whence 
νέμεσις is even an attribute of the gods. 

3. But φθόνος is differently opposed to pity, for it is λύπη 
ταραχώδης ἐ ἐπὶ εὐπραγίᾳ, ἀλλ᾽ οὐ τοῦ ἀναξίου, ἀλλὰ τοῦ ἴσου καὶ 
ὑμοίου. But it is solely with reference to one’s neighbour, 
otherwise it will be φόβος. 

4. But, by parity of reasoning, ὁ λυπούμενος ἐ ἐπὶ τοῖς ἀναξίως 
κακοπραγοῦσιν ἡσθήσεται, ἢ ἄλυπος ἔσται, ἐπὶ τοῖς. ἐναντίως 
κακοπραγοῦσιν. 

5. ὋὉ αὐτός ἐστιν ἐπιχαιρέκακος καὶ φθονερός" ἐφ᾽ ᾧ γάρ τις 
λυπεῖται γιγνομένῳ, καὶ ὑπάρχοντι, ἀναγκαῖον, τοῦτον ἐπὶ τῇ 
στερήσει, καὶ τῇ φθορᾷ τῇ τούτου χαίρειν ἀγάγκη. 

For the enumeration of the objects of γέμεσις, see Hates. 

X.—1. Φθόνος is defined to be λύπη τις ἐπὶ εὐπραγίᾳ φαινο- 
μένῃ τῶν εἰρημένων ἀγαθῶν περὶ τοὺς ὁμοίους, μὴ ἵνα τι αὐτῷ, 
ἀλλὰ δι ἐκείνους" φθονήσουσι μὲν γὰρ οἱ τοιοῦτοι, οἷς εἰσί τινες 
ὅμοιοι, ἣ φαίνονται. And ὅμοιοι are κατὰ γένος, κατὰ συγγέ- 
vevav, καθ᾽ ἡλικίας, καθ᾽ ἕξεις, κατὰ δόξαν, κατὰ τὰ ὑπάρχοντα. 

XI. Ζῆλος is λύπη τις ἐπὶ φαινομένῃ “παρουσίᾳ ἀγαθῶν ἐντί- ' 
μων; καὶ ἐνδεχομένων αὑτῷ λαβεῖν, περὶ τοὺς ὁμοίους τῇ φύσε:, ι 
οὐχ Ore ἄλλῳ, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι οὐχὶ καὶ αὑτῷ ἐστι. _ Hence ζῆλος ἐπι- 
εικές ἐστι, καὶ ἐπιεικῶν, but φθόνος is φαῦλον, καὶ φαύλων». 

XII. Aristotle now considers the passions and habits ot 
men according to their ages, which are three, γεότης, ἀκμὴ, καὶ 
γῆρας. See Hobbes. 

16. Mirth or εὐτραπελία πεπαιδευμένη ὕβρις ἐστί. 

XIII. Old mer are in most respects the contrary. 

XIV. But οἱ ἀκμάζοντες are μεταξὺ τούτων τὸ ἦθος, in all 
respects. 


396 APPENDIX TO THE ANALYSIS 


XV. The goods of fortune are nex‘ considered, in as far as 
they influence the dispositions of men. And, first, the ἦθος of 
2. ebyeveia is defined to be τὸ φιλοτιμότερον εἶναι τὸν κεκτημένον 
αὐτήν" but εὐγένεια is ἐντιμότης προγόνων" καὶ καταφρονητικὸν 
καὶ τῶν ὁμοίων τοῖς προγόνοις τοῖς αὐτῶν. 8. It differs from 
τὸ γενναῖον, inasmuch as εὐγενὲς is said κατὰ τὴν τοῦ γένους 
ἀρετήν" but γενναῖον κατὰ τὸ μὴ ἐξίστασθαι τῆς φύσεως. 

XVI. Of wealth it is observed, ὑβρισταὶ καὶ ὑπερήφανοι 
πάσχοντές τι ὑπὸ τῆς κτήσεως τοῦ TAOUTOv. He then enumerates 
the characteristics of the wealthy, observing ἐν κεφαλαίῳ, ἀνοήτου 
εὐδαίμονος ἦθος πλούτου ἐστι. But the difference between those 

‘of recent and long-standing wealth, consists τῷ ἅπαντα μᾶλλον 
καὶ φαυλότερα τὰ κακὰ ἔχειν τοὺς νεοπλούτους" ὥσπερ γὰρ ἀπαι- 
δευσία πλούτου ἐστὶ τὸ νεόπλουτον εἶναι. . 

XVII. The disposition of the powerful and the fortunate. 

XVIII.—1. Having shown that there are κοινὰ εἴδη belong- 
ing to all the three kinds of oratory, πᾶσι yap ἀναγκαῖον, ra 
περὶ τοῦ δυνατοῦ καὶ ἀδυνάτου προσχρῆσθαι ἐν τοῖς λόγοις" Kal τοὺς 
μὲν, ὡς ἔσται᾽ τοὺς δὲ, ὡς γέγονε, πειρᾶσθαι δεικνύναι. "Ἔτι δὲ, περὶ 
μεγέθους κοινὸν ἁπάντων ἐστὶ τῶν λόγων" χρῶνται γὰρ πάντες 
τῷ μειοῦν καὶ αὔξειν, καὶ συμβουλεύοντες ἣ ἀποτρέποντες, καὶ 
ἐπαινοῦντες ἢ ψέγοντες, καὶ κατηγοροῦντες ἣ ἀπολογούμενοι. 
Aristotle proceeds to lay down a list of the different κοινὰ εἴδη 
applicable to each. See Hobbes. 

XX. Having treated of αἱ ἴδιαι πίστεις, Aristotle proceeds 
to ai κοιναὶ, which are δύο τῷ γένει, παράδειγμα καὶ ἐνθύμημα" 
2. i γὰρ γνώμη μέρος ἐνθυμήματός ἐστι. 8. Παραδειγμάτων δ᾽ 
εἴδη δύο" ἕν μὲν γάρ ἐστι παραδείγματος εἶδος τὸ λέγειν πράγ- 
ματα προγεγενημένα" ἕν δὲ τὸ αὐτὸν ποιεῖν. Τούτου δ᾽ ἕν μὲν 
παραβολή" ἕν δὲ λόγοι" οἷον οἱ Αἰσώπειοι. Specimens of both. 

7. The λόγοι are δημηγορικοὶ, and have the advantage, ὅτι 
πράγματα εὑρεῖν ὅμοια γεγενημένα, χαλεπόν' λόγους δὲ, ῥᾷον. 
But τὰ πράγματα are best πρὸς τὸ βουλεύσασθαι" ὅμοια γὰρ ὡς 
ἐπὶ τὸ πολὺ τὰ μέλλοντα τοῖς γεγονόσι. 

9. Δεῖ δὲ χρῆσθαι τοῖς παραδείγμασιν, οὐκ ἔχοντα μὲν ἐνθυμή- 
ματα, ὡς ἀποδείξεσιν. ἡ γὰρ πίστις διὰ τούτων" ἔχοντα δὲ, ὡς 
μαρτυρίοις, ἐπιλόγῳ χρώμενον [ἐπὶ] τοῖς ἐνθυμήμασι. 

XXI.—2. Τνώμη is defined ἀπόφανσις, οὐ μέντοι περὶ τῶν 
καθ᾽ ἕκαστον' ἀλλὰ καθόλον" καὶ οὐ περὶ πάντων, ἀλλὰ περὶ ὅσων 
αἱ πράξεις εἰσὶ, καὶ αἱρετὰ i) φευκτά ἐστι πρὸς τὸ πράσσειν. 

But since enthymems are syllogisms περὶ τοιούτων, τὰ συμο 


OF ARISTOTLE’S. RHETORIC, 397 


περάσματα τῶν ἐνθυμημάτων, καὶ αἱ ἀρχαὶ, ἀφαιρεθέντος τοῦ 
συλλογισμοῦ, γνῶμαί εἰσιν" προστεθείσης δὲ τῆς αἰτίας, καὶ τοῦ 
διὰ τί, ἐνθύμημα ἔσται τὸ ἅπαν. 

3. Hence there are four kinds of γνώμη, as being either 


per’ ἐπιλόγου, ἄνευ ἐπιλόγου, 
1. ἐνθυμήματος μέρος. 1. διὰ τὸ προεγνῶσθαι. 
2. ἐνθυμηματικαὶ, ἐν ὅσαις 2. ἅμα λεγόμεναι δηλαι. 


ἐμφαίνεται τοῦ λεγομένου 
TO αἴτιον.- 
15. These sort of sayings are of great use, 1. διὰ τὴν φορτι- 
κότητα τῶν ἀκροατῶν" χαίρουσι γὰρ, ἐὰν τις καθόλου λέγων ἐπι- 
τύχῃ τῶν δοξῶν, ἃς ἐκεῖνοι κατὰ μέρος ἔχουσιν. 2. ὅτι ἠθικοὺς 


ποιεῖ τοὺς λόγους, Which takes place ἐν ὅσοις δήλη ἧἡ προαίρεσις. 


XXII. Requisites of enthymems. 1. οὔτε πόῤῥωθεν, οὔτε 
πάντα δεῖ λαμβάνοντα συνάγειν" 2. οὐκ ἐξ ἁπάντων τῶν δο- 
κούντων, ἀλλ᾽ ἐκ τῶν ὡρισμένων λεκτέον" 8. μὴ μόνον συνάγειν 
ἐκ τῶν ἀναγκαίων, ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐκ τῶν ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ πολύ. 

4—12. Enumeration of the manner of forming enthymems 
on different subjects. 

18. Στοιχεῖον καὶ τόπος ἐνθυμήματος τὸ αὐτό. 

14, Two kinds of enthymems, τὰ μὲν γὰρ δεικέικά ἐστιν, ὅτι 
ἔστιν, ἢ οὐκ ἔστι τὰ δὲ ἐλεγκτικά" καὶ διαφέρει, ὥσπερ ἐν τοῖς 
διαλεκτικοῖς ἔλεγχος καὶ συλλογισμός. Ἔστι δὲ τὸ μὲν δεικτικὸν 
ἐνθύμημα τὸ ἐξ ὁμολογουμένων συνάγειν" τὸ δὲ ἐλεγκτικὸν τὰ 
ἀνομολογούμενα συνάγειν. 

XXII The τόποι ἐνθυμημάτων are, 

~ > , 

τῶν ἐναντίων. 
ἐκ τῶν ὁμοίων πτωσέων. 
ἐκ τῶν πρὸς ἄλληλα. 
ἐκ τοῦ μᾶλλον καὶ ἧττον, a fortiori, or a minori. 
εἰ μήτε μᾶλλον, μήτε ἧττον, by parity of reasoning. 
ἐκ τοῦ τὸν χρόνον σκοπεῖν. 
ἐκ τῶν εἰρημένων καθ᾽ αὑτοὺς πρὸς τὸν εἰπόντα. 
ἐξ ὀρισμοῦ. 
ἐκ τοῦ ποσαχῶς. 
10. ἐκ διαιρέσεως. 
il. ἐξ ἐ ἐπαγωγῆς. 
12. ἐκ κρίσεως περὶ τοῦ αὐτοῦ, ἣ ὁμοίου, ἣ ἐναντίου. 
18. ἐκ τῶν μερῶν. 
14, ἐπειδὴ ἐπὶ τῶν πλείστων συμβαίνει, ὥσθ᾽ ἕπεσθαί νἱὶ 


COMA OB rb 


398 APPENDIX TO THE ANALYSIS 


αὐτοῖς ἀγαθὸν καὶ κακὸν, ἐκ τοῦ ἀκολουθοῦντος προτρέπειν ἣ 
ἀποτρέπειν. 

15. ὅταν περὶ δυοῖν καὶ ἀντικειμένοιν [ἢ προτρέπειν ἢ ἀπο- 
τρέπειν δέῃ, καὶ τῷ πρότερον εἰρημένῳ τύπῳ ἐπ᾽ ἀμφοῖν χρῆσθαι, 
the dilemma. 

16. ἐπειδὴ οὗ τὰ αὑτὰ φανερῶς ἐπαινοῦσι καὶ ἀφανῶς. 

17. ἐκ τοῦ ἀνάλογον ταῦτα “συμβαίνειν. 

18. ἐς τοῦ, τὸ συμβαῖνον ἐὰν ἦ ταὐτὸν, ὅτι καὶ ἐξ ὧν συμ- 
βαίνει ταὐτά. 

19. ἐκ τοῦ μὴ ταὐτὸ αἰεὶ αἱρεῖσθαι ὕστερον ἣ πρότερον, ἀλλ᾽ 
ἀνάπαλιν, οἷον τόδε τὸ ἐνθύμημα. 

20. τὸ, οὗ ἕνεκα ἂν εἴη, ἢ γένοιτο, τούτου ἕνεκα φάναι εἶναι, ἢ 
γεγενῆσθαι. 

21. σκοπεῖν τὰ προτρέποντα καὶ ἀποτρέποντα, καὶ ὧν ἕνεκα 
καὶ πράττουσι καὶ φεύγουσι. 

22. ἐκ τῶν δοκούντων μὲν γίγνεσθαι, ἀπίστων δὲ. 

28. ἐλεγκτικὸς, τὸ τὰ ἀνομολογούμενα σκοπεῖν, εἴ TL ἀνομολο- 
γούμενον ἐκ πάντων [καὶ] χρόνων, καὶ πράξεων, καὶ λόγων. 

24, role προδιαβεβλημένοις καὶ ἀνθρώποις καὶ πράγμασι, jj 
δοκοῦσι, τὸ λέγειν τὴν αἰτίαν τοῦ παραδόξου. 

25. ἀπὸ τοῦ αἰτίου, ἄν τε ὑπάρχῃ; ὅτι ἐστί κἂν μὴ ὑπάρχῃ, 
ὅτι οὐκ ἔστιν" ἅμα. 

26. εἰ ἐνεδέχετο βέλτιον ἄλλως, ἣ ἐνδέχεται, ὧν ἣ συμβου- 
λεύει, ἢ πράττει, 7) πέπραχεν, σκοπεῖν. 

27. ὅταν τι ἐναντίον μέλλῃ πράττεσθαι τοῖς πεπραγμένοις, ἅμα 
σκοπεῖν. 

28. τὸ ἐκ τῶν ἁμαρτηθέντων κατηγορεῖν, ἢ ἀπολογεῖσθαι. 

29. ἀπὸ τοῦ ὀνόματος. 

The ἐλεγκτικὰ are preferred. 

XXIV. Apparent enthymems are, 

1, παρὰ τὴν λέξιν. 1. τὸ μὴ συλλογισάμενον συμπερασματι- 
κῶς τὸ τελευταῖον εἰπεῖν. 2. το παρὰ τὴν ὁμωνυμίαν. 

2. τὸ διῃρημένον συντιθέντα λέγειν, ἣ τὸ συγκείμενον διαι- 
ροῦντα. 

8. τὸ δεινώσει κατασκευάζειν, ἣ ἣ ἀνασκευάζειν, ὅταν μὴ δείξ. ς, 
ὅτι ἐποίησεν, αὐξήσῃ τὸ πρᾶγμα. 

4, τὸ ἐκ σημείου. 

5. διὰ τὸ συμβεβηκός. 

6. παρὰ τὸ ἑπόμενον. 

7. παρὰ τὸ ἐναίτιον ὡς αἴτιον. 

8, παρὰ τὴ; ἔλλειψιν τοῦ πότε καὶ THE. 


OF ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. ; 399 


9. ὥσπερ ἐν τοῖς ἐριστικοῖς Tapa τὸ ἁπλῶς καὶ μὴ ἁπλῶς, ἀλλό 
το γίγνεται φαινόμενος συλλογισμός" from what is not ἁπλῶς 
εἰκὸς, but re εἰκός. 

XXV. Solution of arguments is managed either by an 
ἀντισυλλογισμὸς. or ἔνστασις. 

8. ἼἝνστασις is fourfold. 1. ἐκ ταὐτοῦ. 2. ἐκ τοῦ ὁμοίου. 
3. ἐκ τοῦ ἐναντίου. 4. ἐκ τῶν κεκριμμένων. 

8. Since enthymems are derived from εἰκὸς, παράδειγμα, 
τεκμήριον, and σημεῖον, and since the inferences from what is 
usual are ἐκ τῶν εἰκότων, but those from ἐπαγωγὴ are derived 
διὰ παραδείγματος, but ἀναγκαῖα, διὰ τεκμηρίου, and those 
drawn from what holds good or not, either universally or par- 
ticularly, are διὰ σημείων, and as εἰκὸς is only ἐπὶ τὸ rode, it is 
plain that all reasonings may be got rid of by objection. 

9. ‘H δὲ λύσις “Φαινομένη, ἀλλ᾽ οὐκ ἀληθὴς αἰεί" οὐ γὰρ, ὅτι 
οὐκ εἰκὸς, λύει ὁ ἐνιστάμενος, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι οὐκ ἀναγκαῖον. Διὸ καὶ 
ἀεί ἐστι πλεονεκτεῖν ἀπολογούμενον μᾶλλον ἢ κατηγοροῦντα, διὰ 
τοῦτον τὸν παραλογισμόν. 

12, Λύεται δὲ καὶ τὰ σημεῖα, καὶ τὰ διὰ σημείου ἐνθυμήματα 
εἰρημένα, κἂν ἦ ὑπάρχοντα, since ἀσυλλόγιστόν ἐ ἐστι πᾶν σημεῖον. 

18. The same λύσις applies to ra mapaderyparwen Kai τὰ 
εἰκότα' ἐὰν yap ἔχωμέν τι οὐχ οὕτως, λέλυται, but, if the major 
part be against us, we must strive to show ὅτι οὐχ ὅμοιον τὸ 
παρόν. 

14, But τεκμήρια καὶ τεκμηριώδη ἐνθυμήματα κατὰ μὲν τὸ 
ἀσυλλόγιστον οὐκ ἔσται λῦσαι. 

XXVI. Τὸ αὔξειν καὶ μειοῦν οὐκ ἔστιν ἐνθυμήματος στοι- 
χεῖον, but they are ἐνθυμήματα πρὸς τὸ δεῖξαι, ὅτι μέγα ἢ 
μικρὸν. 

8. Οὐδὲ τὰ λυτικὰ ἐνθυμήματος εἶδός τί ἐστιν ἄλλο τῶν κατα- 
σεευαστικῶν. 

4, Nor is ἔνστασις an enthymem, but τὸ εἰπεῖν δόξαν τινὰ, 
ἐξ ἧς ἔσται δῆλον», ὅτι ov συλλελόγισται, ἣ ὅτι ψεῦδός τι εἴληφεν. 


400 APPENDIX TO THE ANALYSIS 


BOOK III. 


I.—1. Three points to be considered in a speech, riorig, 
λέξις, and τάξις. 

2. We may treat of λέξις, for it is not sufficient ἔχει», ἃ δεῖ 
λέγειν, ἀλλ᾽ ἀνάγκη καὶ ταῦτα, ὡς δεῖ, εἰπεῖν. 

8. Now ὑπόκρισις has been omitted, which indeed came late 
into Tragedy and Rhapsody, for the poets at first recited their 
own verses. 

4, It consists in three things, μέγεθος, ἁρμονία, ῥυθμός. 

6. After showing its disadvantages, Aristotle observes, τὸ 
μὲν οὖν τῆς λέξεως ὅ ὅμως ἔχει τι μικρὸν ἀναγκαῖον ἐν πάσῃ δι- 
ξασκαλέᾳ" διαφέρει γάρ τι πρὸς τὸ δηλώσαι, ὡδὶ ἢ ἢ ὡδὶ εἰπεῖν, ov 
μέντοι τοσοῦτον᾽ ἀλλ᾽ ἅπαντα φαντασία ταῦτά ἐστι, καὶ πρὸς τὸν 
ἀκροατήν. 

7. The effect of it is the same as that produced by acting. 

8. The poets first made it their study, then the rhetoricians, 
after which it fell off, as the tragic poets have changed from 
tetrametre to Iambics. 

II. Two ἀρεταὶ dé~ewe. 1. σαφῆ εἶναι. 2. μὴ ταπεινὴν, 
pare ὑπὲρ τὸ ἀξίωμα, ἀλλὰ πρέπουσαν. 

2. The former virtue is obtained by the use of κύρια ὀνόματα, 
the latter by τὰ ἄλλα, διὸ δεῖ ποιεῖν ξένην τὴν διάλεκτον, be- 
cause the hearers are θαυμασταὶ τῶν ἀπόντων. 

3. This is more easy and suitable in poetry, hence in prose 
δεῖ λανθάνειν ποιοῦντας, Kal μὴ δοκεῖν λέγειν πεπλασμένως, 
ἀλλὰ πεφυκότως" τοῦτο γὰρ πιθανὸν, ἐκεῖνο δὲ τοὐναντίον. 

5. Of the many species of nouns γλώτταις μὲν, καὶ διπλοῖς 
ὀνόμασι, καὶ πεποιημένοις, ὀλιγάκις Kal ὀλιγαχοῦ χρηστέον" ἐπὶ 
τὸ μεῖζον γὰρ ἐξαλλάττει τοῦ πρέποντος. 

. 6. Τὸ δὲ κύριον καὶ τὸ οἰκεῖον, καὶ μεταφορὰ, μόναι χρήσιμοι 
πρὸς τὴν τῶν ψιλῶν λόγων λέξιν. ὅτι τούτοις μόνοις πάντες 
χρῶνται" πάντες γὰρ μεταφοραῖς διαλέγονται, καὶ τοῖς οἰκείοις, 
καὶ τοῖς κυρίοις. Hence if any one form his discourse well, 
ἔσται τε ξενικὸν, καὶ λανθάνειν ἐνδέχεται, καὶ σαφηνιεῖ. 

7. ὁμωνυμίαι are useful to the sophist, συνώνυμα and κύρια 
to the poet. 

8. Td σαφὲς, καὶ τὸ ἡδὺ, καὶ τὸ ξενικὸν ἔχει μάλιστα i 
μεταφορά. 


-ὖ τυ β- 


OF ARISTOTLE’S RHETORIC. 401 


9. Δεῖ δὲ καὶ ra ἐπίθετα, καὶ τὰς μεταφορὰς ἁρμοττούσας λέγειν, 
i. 6. ἐκ τοῦ ἀνάλογον. 

10. Καὶ ἐὰν κοσμεῖν βούλῃ, ἀπὸ τοῦ βελτίονος τῶν ἐν ταὐτῷ 
γένει φέρειν τὴν μεταφορὰν, ἐὰν δὲ ψέγειν, ἀπὸ τῶν χειρόνων. 

11, Ἔστι δὲ καὶ ἐν ταῖς συλλαβαῖς ἁμαρτία, ἐὰν μὴ ἡδείας ἦ 
σημεῖα φωνῆς. 

12, Οὐ πόῤῥωθεν δεῖ, ἀλλ᾽ ἐκ τῶν συγγενῶν καὶ τῶν ὁμοειδῶν 
μεταφέρειν τὰ ἀνώνυμα ὠνομασμένως, ὃ λεχθὲν δῆλόν ἐστιν ὅτι 
συγγενές. 

18, Καὶ ἀπὸ καλῶν ἣ τῇ φωνῇ, ἣ τῇ δυνάμει, ἣ τῇ ὄψει, ἢ ἄλλῃ 
τινὶ αἰσθήσει. 

14, And epithets may be derived ἀπὸ φαύλου ἣ αἰσχροῦ, or 
ἀπὸ τοῦ βελτίονος, and we may also make use of ὑποκορισμός. 

Il. Ψυχρὰ are produced in four ways: 

1. ἔν τοῖς διπλοῖς ὀνόμασιν. 

2. ἐν τῷ χρῆσθαι γλώτταις. 

3. ἐν τοῖς ἐπιθέτοις, τὸ 7) μακροῖς, ἣ ἀκαίροις, ἢ πυκνοῖς 
χρῆσθαι. 

4. μεταφοραὶ ἀπρεπεῖς, αἱ μὲν διὰ τὸ γελοῖον, αἱ δὲ διὰ τὸ 
σεμνὸν ἄγαν καὶ τραγικόν. 

IV. Simile akin to metaphor. Examples. 

V. ᾿Αρχὴ τῆς λέξεως τὸ Ἑλληνίζειν. And this is produced 
in four ways: 

1. ἐν τοῖς συνδέσμοις. 

2. ἐν τῷ τοῖς ἰδίοις ὀνόμασι λέγειν, καὶ μὴ τοῖς περιέχουσι. 

8. μὴ ἀμφιβόλοις. 

4. ἐν τῷ τὰ γένη τῶν ὀνομάτων ἄῤῥενα, καὶ θήλεα, καὶ σκεύη 
ἀποδιδόναι ὀρθῶς. 

5. ἐν τῷ τὰ πολλὰ, καὶ ὀλίγα, καὶ ἕν, ὀρθῶς ὀνομάζειν. 

6. Ὅλως δὲ δεῖ εὐανάγνωστον εἶναι τὸ γεγραμμένον, καὶ 
εὔφραστον" and this must not depend upon the punctuation. 

7. It causes a solecism, μὴ ἀποδιδόναι, ἐὰν μὴ ἐπιζευγνύῃς 
ἀμφοῖν, ὃ ἁρμόττει. 

And it is indistinct, ἂν μὴ προθεὶς εἴπῃς, μέλλων πολλὰ με- 
ταξὺ ἐμβάλλειν. 

VI. To produce ὄγχος, the following rules contribute: 

1. τὸ λόγῳ χρῆσθαι ἀντ᾽ ὀνόματος. 

. ἐὰν αἰσχρον ἦ ἐν τῷ λόγῳ, τοὔνομα λέγειν, and vice versa. 
. μεταφοραῖς δηλοῦν, καὶ ἐπιθέτοις, εὐλαβούμενον τὸ ποιητικόν 

. τὸ ἕν πολλὰ ποιεῖν. 
. μὴ ἐπιζευγνύναι. 


ὧν > ὧϑ DO 


2D 


402 APPENDIX lv THE ANALYSIS 


6. μετὰ συνδέσμου λέγειν. 
7. By negative epithets. 

VIL —l. To δὲ πρέπον ἕξει ἡ λέξις, ἐὰν ἦ nabeete τε καὶ 
ἠθικὴ, καὶ τοῖς ὑποκειμένοις πράγμασιν ἀνάλογον. But ἀνάλογον 
is, ἐὰν μήτε περὶ εὐόγκων ᾿αὐτοκαβδάλως λέγηται, pire περὶ 
εὐτελῶν σεμνῶς" μηδ᾽ ἐπὶ τῷ εὐτελεῖ ὀνόματι ἐπῇ κόσμος. In- 
stances. See Wane 

VIII. On the rhythms. See the notes, p. 227, sq. 

XI. Eipopévn λέξις, ἣ οὐδὲν ἔχει τέλος καθ᾽ αὑτὴν, ἂν μὴ τὸ 
πρᾶγμα λεγόμενον τελειωθῇ. 

Κατεστραμμένη, ἡ ἐν περιόδοις. And περίοδος, is defined to 
be λέξις ἔ ἔχουσα ἀρχὴν καὶ τελευτὴν αὐτὴν καθ᾽ αὑτὴν, καὶ μέγε- 
θος εὐσύνοπτον᾽ and it must finish with the sense, and not be 
cut off. 

5. Περίοδος δὲ, ἡ μὲν ἐν κώλοις" ἡ δὲ ἀφελής. "Ἔστι δὲ ἐν 
κώλοις μὲν λέξις ἡ ἡ τετελειωμένη τε καὶ διῃρημένη, καὶ εὐανάπνευ- 
στος, μὴ ἐν τῇ διαιρέσει, ὥσπερ ἡ εἰρημένη περίοδος, ἀλλ᾽ ὅλη. 
Κῶλον δ᾽ ἐστὶ τὸ ἕτερον μόριον ταύτης. ᾿Αφελῆ δὲ λέγω τὴν 
μονόκωλον. 

7. And ἣ ἐν κώλοις is either διῃρημένη ΟΥ̓ ἀντικειμένη. 

9. Παρομοίωσις is when ὅμοια τὰ ἔσχατα ἔχῃ ἑκάτερον τῶν 
κώλων. 

X.—2. Since τὸ μανθάνειν ῥᾳδίως ἡδὺ φύσει πᾶσιν, κύρια, 
μεταφοραὶ, and εἰκονες chiefly contribute to the fundamental 
principle of elegance, μάθησις. 

4. ᾿Ανάγκη δὴ, καὶ λέξιν, καὶ ἐνθυμήματα ταῦτα εἶναι ἀστεῖα, 
ὕσα ποιεῖ ἡμῖν μάθησιν ταχεῖαν. 

ὅ. καὶ ἐὰν ἀντικειμένως λέγηται. 

7. Of the four kinds of metaphors, ai κατ᾽ ἀναλογίαν εὐδο- 
κιμοῦσι μάλιστα. 

XI.—1. A man is said ποιεῖν πρὸ ὁμμάτων, ὅσα ἐνεργοῦντα 
σημαίνει. See Hobbes, p. 337. 

XII. Each kind of oratory has its proper λέξις. 

Now the λέξις γραφικὴ is ἡ ἀκριβεστάτη; but the ἀγωνιστικὴ 
is ἡ ὑποκριτικωτάτη. Ταύτης δὲ δύο εἴδη" ἡ μὲν yao ἠθική" ἣ. δὲ 
παθητική. 

Ἔ And δημηγορικὴ λέξις παντελῶς ἔοικε τῇ σκιαγραφίᾳ. 

5. ἡ δὲ δίκη ἀκριβέστεοον. 
6. ἡ δὲ ἐπιδεικτικὴ λέξις γραφικωτάτη" δευτέρα δὲ ἡ δικανική. 
XJII.—1. The parts of a speech are two, ἀναγκαῖον yap, 


9 ~ ~ ‘ > \ - 9 9 ~ 
τὸ πρᾶγμα εἰπεῖν, περὶ OV, καὶ TOUT ἀποδεῖξαι. 


OF ARISTOTILE’S RHETORIC. 403 


2. Hence the πρόθεσις and πέστις are τὰ ἀναγκαῖα μόρια. 

4, But there are in all four, προοίμιον, πρόθεσις, πίστις, 
ἐπίλογος. 

XIV. Προοίμιον ἐστιν ἀρχὴ λόγου" ὅπερ ἐν ποιήσει πρόλογος, 
καὶ ἐν αὐλήσει προαύλιον. For this and the next chapter, see 
Hobbes, p. 339, sqq. 

XVI. Διήγησις δ᾽ ἐν μὲν τοῖς ἐπιδεικτικοῖς ἐστιν οὐκ ἐφεξῆς, 
ἀλλὰ κατὰ μέρος. 

4, In δικανικὴ, the διήγησις must be clear, and the orator 
should, by a παραδιήγησις, tell ὅσα εἰς τὴν ἑαυτοῦ ἀρετὴν φέρει, 
ἢ θατέρου κακίαν, ἣ ὅσα ἡδέα τοῖς δικασταῖς. 

7. Πεπραγμένα δεῖ λέγειν, ὅσα μὴ πραττόμενα ἢ οἶκτον, ἣ 
δείνωσιν φέρει. 

8. And the διήγησις must be ἡθική. 1. By showing the 
προαίρεσις. 2. τὰ ἑπόμενα ἑκάστῳ ἤθει. 8. μὴ ὡς ἀπὸ διανοίας 

"λέγειν, ἀλλ᾽ ὡς ἀπὸ προαιρέσεως. 

10. “Eri, ἐκ τῶν παθητικῶν λέγε, διηγούμενος καὶ τὰ ἑπόμενα, 
καὶ ἃ ἴσασι, καὶ τὰ ἰδίᾳ ἢ αὐτῷ, ἢ ἐκείνῳ προσόντα. Καὶ εὐθὺς 
εἰσάσαγε σεαυτὸν ποῖον τινα, ἵνα ὡς τοιοῦτον θεωρῶσι, καὶ τὸν 
ἀντίδικον. λανθάνων δὲ ποίει. 

11. But in δημηγορίᾳ, διήγησις is least used, and only περὶ 
μελλόντων, iva ἀναμνησθέντες ἐκείνων βέλτιον βουλεύσωνται 
περὶ τῶν ὕστερον. ; 

XVII. Πίστεις must be ἀποδεικτικαί, upon four points. 
See Hobbes, p. 343, sq. As also for the two next chapter 


THE END. 


"χά: at a “ad 


oa τΩ ἘΠΕ 
Andee 

nde is) be i 

oth Bis fasts 


THE POETIC 


OF 


ARISTOTLE, 


LITERALLY TRANSLATED, WITH A SELECTION OF NOTE, 
AN ANALYSIS, AND QUESTIONS, ; | 


BY 


THEODORE BUCKLEY, B.A. 


OF CHRIST CHURCH. 


203 


THE POETIO, 


CHAP. 1. 


On Poetry im general, as an imitative Art, and tts different 
Species, 


Let us speak concerning poetry itself, and its [dif- 
ferent | species'; what power each possesses, and how 


1, On Po- 
etry, its 
influence 


fables must be composed, in order that poetry may and spe- 
be such as is fitting: further still, [let us show] of cies. 


how many and what kind of parts it consists; and 
in like manner [let us treat] concerning such other 
things as pertain to this method, beginning, con- 
formably to nature, first from such things as are 
first. 

The epopee, therefore, and tragic poetry, and 
moreover comedy, and dithyrambic poetry, and the 
greatest part of the art pertaining to the flute and 
the lyre’, are all entirely imitations®. They differ, 


however, in three things; for [they differ] either by diff 


imitating through means different in kind, or by imi- 
tating different objects, or in a different, and not after 
the same manner. For as certain persons assimi- 
lating, imitate many things by colours and figures, 
some indeed through art, but others through custom, 
[and others through voice |*; thus also in the afore- 


! “ Poesis in species sive formas (εἴδη), forme rursus in 
partes (μόρια, μέρη) dividuntur.” Ritter. 

2 Cf. Plato Theag. p. 10. Ὁ. Cithern-playing was one of the 
favourite accomplishments of the Athenian youth, ibid. p. 8. E. 
Alcib. Pr. p. 26. D.. Lem. and Olympiodor. in eund. t. ii. p. 
65. ed. Creuz. 

* See Ritter, and Twining’s Dissertations and first note, 

* Hermann reads φύσεως for φωνῆς with Madius, but Ritter 
rondemns the words as ore 

28 


5. 
Dancing 
imitates 
by 
rhythm 
~,, only. 
vey fa ας, 6. The 
χχ γις " epopee by 
is ule (XY ords. 
7. Ety- 


408 ARISTOTLE’S [cHar. f 


mentioned arts, all of them indeed produce imitation 
in rhythm, words, and harmony ; and in these, either 
distinctly, or mingled together, as, for instance, the 
arts of the flute and the lyre alone employ harmony 
and rhythm®; and this will also be the case with any 
other arts which possess a power of this kind, such 
as the art of playing on reed-pipes. But the arts 
pertaining to dancing imitate by rhythm, without har- 
mony ; for dancers, through figured rhythms, imitate 
manners, and passions, and actions. But the epopee 
alone imitates by mere words® or metres, and by these 
either mingling them with each other, or employing 
one certain kind of metres, which method has been 
adopted up to the present time’. For otherwise we 


mology of should have no common name, by which we could 


the name 
Poet. 


denominate the Mimes of Sophron and Xenarchus, 
and the dialogues of Socrates; or those who imitate 
by trimetres, or elegies, or certain other things of 
this kind; except that men joining with metre the 
verb to make®, call some of these makers of elegies, 
but others epic makers, not as poets according to imi+ 


5 Cf. Rhet. iii. 8. 

6 There is much difficulty about this definition of ἐποποιία, 
as λόγοις ψιλοῖς is supposed by some to mean prose, (see Ro- 
bortell. p. 14,) by others, verse without music. The former 
opinion is advocated by Hermann, the latter by Buhle. Ritter 
seems to have clearly shown that ἢ τοῖς μέτροις is added, not 
as an explanation of λόγοις ψιλοῖς, but disjunctively, and that 
ἐποποιία is used in a new sense for certain parts of prose-writ- 
ing as well as verse. The sense is, therefore, “‘ by prose or by 
metre, but unaccompanied by song.” 

7 Ritter observes that the following passage is an excuse for 
the new signification of ἐποποιία. 

5. It may be necessary to observe, that the Greek word 
(arorntns—poiétes) whence poeta, and poet, is, literally, maker ; 
and maker, it is well known, was once the current term fur 
poet in our language; and to write verses, was, to make. Sir 
Philip Sidney, speaking of the Greek word, says, ‘ wherein, I 
know not whether by luck or wisdom, we Englishmen have 
met with the Greeks, in calling him maker.” Defense οὗ 
Poesy. 

So Spenser : 

The god of shepherds, Tityrus, is dead, 
Who taught me, homely, as I can, to MAKE. 
Shep. Cal. June. Twining. 


CHAP. II.] POETIC. 409 


tation, but denominating them in common according 
to measure. For they are accustomed thus to de- 
nominate them, if they write any thing medical or 
musical in verse. There is, however, nothing com- 
mon to Homer and Empedocles except the measure ; 
on which account, it is right indeed to call the former 
a poet; but the latter, a physiologist rather than a 
poet. In like manner, though some one, mingling all 
the measures, should produce imitation, as Chere- 
mon has done in his Centaur, a mixed rhapsody of 
all the metres, yet he must not be called a poet®.. Let 
it then be thus laid down concerning these particulars. 
But there are some kinds of poetry which employ all 
the before-mentioned means, I mean, rhythm, melody, 
and measure, such as dithyrambic poetry and the 
Nomes”, and also tragedy and comedy. But these 
differ, because some of them use all these at once, but 
others partial: I speak, therefore, of these differ- 
ences of the arts in respect to the means by which 
they produce imitation. 


CHAP. II. 
On Imitation, and its usual Objects. 


cwir~ BUT since imitators imitate those who do some- 


uo” 


thing, and it is necessary that these should either be 
worthy or depraved persons; (for manners nearly 
always depend on these alone, since all men differ in 
their manners by vice and virtue;) it is necessary 
either [to imitate] those who are better than we are, 


9 ** For imitation makes the poet, not the metre.’’ Ritter. 

10 In dithyrambic or Bacchic hymns, and in the Nomes, 
which were also a species of hymns to Apollo and other 
deities, a// the means of imitation were employed together, and 
throughout : in tragedy and comedy, separately ; some of them 
in one part of the drama, and some in another. In the choral 
part, however, at least, if no where else, αὐ, melody, rhythm, 
and words, must probably have been used at once, as in the 


hymns. Twining. 
282 


8. Which 
name is 
common 
to writers 
on other 
subjects. 


9. But the 
adherence 
to metre 
does not 
make the 
poet. 


10. Means 
respect- 
ively em- 
ployed by 
the differ- 
ent kind: 
of poetry. 


1. Objects 
of imita- 
tion either 
good or 
bad, as in 
painting. 


2. And 
imitations 
different. 


1. Imita- 
tions dif- 
ferent in 
the man- 
ner. 


410 ARISTOTLE’S {CHAP. HL. 


or those who are worse, or such as are like ourselves!, 


in the same manner as painters do. For Polygnotus, 
indeed, painted men more beautiful than they are, 
but Pauson less so, and Dionysius painted them as 
they are®. But it is evident that each of the before- 
mentioned imitations will have these differences ; and 
imitation is different, by imitating different things 
after this manner. For there may be differences of 
this kind in dancing, in playing on the flute, on the 
lyre, and also in orations and mere measure. Thus 
Homer imitates better men? [than exist], but Cleo- 
phon men as they are; and Hegemon the Thasian, 
who first made parodies, and Nicochares, who wrote 
the Deliad, imitate worse characters. In like man- 
ner in dithyrambics and the Nomi, [as Timotheus 
and Philoxenus have imitated the Persians and the 
Cyclops, | one may imitate‘. By this very same dif- 
ference, also, tragedy differs from comedy. For the 
oge seeks to imitate worse, but the other better men 
tifan are. 


CHAP. III. 


The third difference of Poetry according to the manner 
of imitating, 


THERE is also a third difference of these, consist- 
ing in the manner in which one may imitate each of 


1 Or, ‘‘ those who are commonly found.” 

2 Polygnotus and Dionysius lived about Ol. 80; Pauson 
about Ol. 90. On the following poets see Ritter. 

3 Superior, that is, in courage, strength, wisdom, prudence, 
etc.—in any laudable, useful, or admirable quality, whether 
such as we denominate moral, or not. If superiority of moral 
character only were meant, the assertion would be false.—It is 
necessary to remember here, the wide sense in which the 
ancients used the terms virtue, vice—good, bad, etc. See note 
19.—The difference between moral and poetical perfection of 
character, is well explained by Dr. Beattie; Essay on Poetry, 
etc., Part I. ch. 4. The heroes of Homer, as he well observes, 
are “ finer animals” than we are, (p. 69,) not better men. 
Twining. 

* Ritter would .hrow out the words enclosed in brackets 
See his note. 


CHAP. IIt.* POETIC. All 


them. For by the same instruments the same 
things may be imitated, the poet sometimes himself 
narrating, and sometimes assuming another person [as 
Homer does ]!; or speaking as the same person with- 
out any change; or as all imitate [who do so] by 
deed and action. But imitation consists in these 
three differences, as we said in the beginning; viz. 
in the means, the objects, or the manner. Hence, 
Sophocles will in one respect be the same imitator 
as Homer, for both of them imitate elevated cha- 
racters; and in another the same as Aristophanes, 
for both of them imitate persons engaged in acting ; 
[?whence also it is said that certain persons call their 
works dramas, because they imitate those who are 
engaged in doing something. On this account the 
Dorians lay claim to the invention of tragedy and 
comedy; of comedy indeed the Megarians, as well 
those who are natives of Greece, as being invented 
by them at the time when their government was a 
democracy, as those of Sicily. For thence was the 
poet Epicharmus, who was much prior to Chonides 
and Magnes. But some of those Dorians who inhabit 
Peloponnesus lay claim to tragedy, making names an 
evidence. For they allege that they call their 
villages komai, but the Athenians demoi; as if 
comedians were not so denominated from komazein, 
[i. 6. to revel,| but from their wandering through 
villages, being ignominiously expelled from the cities. 
The verb poiein also, or to make, is by the Dorians 
denominated dran, but by the Athenians prattein.] 


2. And 
the differ 
ences of 
imitation 
are three. 


3. Ety- 
mology of 
the drama 
andclaims 
to its in- 
vention. 


And thus much concerning the differences of imita- 4 


tion, as to their number and quality. 


1 But this assertion is not correct, and Ritter shows that the 
words are spurious. 

2 The learned note of Ritter seems to condemn the whole of 
this passage as spurious. 


ait ARISTOTLE’S [cuar. rv. 


CHAP. IV. 


The Cawses and Progress of Poetry. 


a ig Two causes, however, and these physical, appezr 
2. of poe- to have produced poetry in general. For to imitate 


try,and is congenial to men from childhood. And in this 


oe a. they differ from other animals, that they are most 


the first, imitative, and acquire the first disciplines through 
the na- jmitation; and that all men delight in imitations. 
alg hers But an evidence of this is that which happens in the 
tion, works [of artists]. For we are delighted on survey- 
8, seen in ing very accurate images, the realities of which are 


ἜΝΗΦΡ ΝΟ painful to the view; such as the forms of the most 


ofart; contemptible animals, and dead bodies. The cause, 
τ because however, of this is, that learning is not only most de- 
o learn is ,. . . 4: 
ever plea- lightful to philosophers, but in like manner to other 
sant. persons, though they partake of ‘it but in a small 
delight ie degree. For on this account, men are delighted on 
images. Surveying images, because it happens that by survey- 
ing they learn and infer what each particular is; as, 
that this is an image of that man; since, unless one 
happen to have seen [the reality], it is not the imi- 
tation that pleases', but [it is through] either the 
gag workmanship, or the colour, or some other cause of 
fromimit- the like kind. But imitation, harmony, and rhythm 
ation, + being natural to us, (for it is evident that measures 
harmony, or metres are parts of rhythms,? ) the earliest among 
and ‘ 5 . . 
rhythm, mankind, making a gradual progress in these things 


1 Ritter well reads οὐχὲ μίμημα ἦ μίμημα. 

2 “Ruyrnum differs from METRE, inasmuch as RHYTHM is 
proportion, applied to any motion whatever ; METRE is propor- 
tion, applied to the motion of worDs spoKEN. Thus, in the 
drumming of a march, or the dancing of a hornpipe, there is 
rhythm, though no metre; in Dryden’s celebrated Ode there is 
METRE as well as RHYTHM, because the poet with the rhythm 
has associated certain words. And hence it follows, that, though 
ALL METRE is RHYTHM, yet ALL RHYTHM is NOTMETRE.” Har- 
ris’s Philol. Inquiries, p. 67,—where it is also observed, very 
truly, that “πὸ English word expresses rhythmus better than 
the word time.” P. 69, note. Twining. 


CHAP. 1V.) POETIC. 413 


from the beginning, produced poetry from extempo- 
raneous efforts. But poetry was divided according 
to appropriate manners. For men of a more vener- 
able_character imitated beautiful actions, and the 
_actions of such men; but the more ignoble imitated 
the actions of depraved characters, first composing 
vituperative verses, in the same manner as the others 
composed hymns-and encomiums. Of the authors, 
therefore, before Homer, we cannot mention any poem 
of this kind; though it is probable that there were 
many such writers. But if we begin from Homer, 
there are such for instance as his Margites*, and some 
others, in which, as being suited, the measure is 
Iambic. Hence, also, the lambic verse is now called, 
because in this metre they used to Lambize (i. 6. de- 
fame) each other. Of ancient poets, likewise, some 
composed heroic poems, and others Iambic. 
Homer was the greatest of poets on serious subjects, 
(and this not only because he alone imitated well, but 
also because he made dramatic imitations,) thus too 


he first demonstrated the figures of comedy, not dra-. 


matically exhibiting invective, but ridicule. For the 
Margites bears the same analogy to comedy, as the 
Iliad and Odyssey to tragedy. But when tragedy 
and comedy had those poets who were na- 
turally impelled to each kind of poetry, some, instead 
of writing Iambics, became comic poets, but others, 
instead of [writing] epic poems, became the authors 
of tragedies, because these forms [of poetry] are 
greater and more esteemed than those. To con- 


sider, therefore, whether tragedy is now perfect 55 
in its species or not, regarded as well with refer- 


ence to itself as to the theatres, is the business of 
another treatise. Both tragedy and comedy, there- 
fore, at first originated from extemporaneous efforts. 


8 The character of the hero is handed down to us thus; 
Tov δ᾽ οὔτ᾽ do σκαπτῆρά θεοὶ θέσαν οὔτ᾽ ἀροτῆρα 
οὔτ᾽ ἄλλως τε σοφόν, πάσης δ᾽ ἠμάρτανε τέχνης. 
And again, 
word’ ἠπίστατο ἔργα, κακῶς δ᾽ ἠπίστατο πάντα. 
A character not unlike Sir Abel Handy i in Morton’s “ Schor* 
-ef Reform.” 


But as P 


men ori- 
ginally 
produced 
poetry, 

7. which 
was va- 
ried ac- 
cording to 
suitable 
manners. 


8. No sati- 
rical poe- 
try before 


‘Homer’s 


Margites. 


9. The old 
oets 
thence 
were ei- 
ther hero- 
ic or Iam- 
bic. 


10. Pro- 
gress of 
the two 
styles, 
upon the 
introduc- 
tion of 


12. Both 
at first ex» 
temporn- 
neous. 


414 ARISTOTLE’S [cHar. rv. 


y And tragedy, indeed, originated from those who led 
Y the dithyramb, but comedy from those who sung the 
Phallic verses, which even now in many cities re- 
main in use; and it gradually increased as obvious 
improvements became known. And tragedy, having 
experienced many changes, rested when it had are 7 
13. Hs- rived at its proper nature. ,, Auschylus, also, first im- mou 
rss dol creased_the numberof players from_one to two4, ove σοὶ 
tragedy, abridged the functions of the chorus, and made one 
and then of the players act the chief part®, But Sophocles in- 
aaa troduced three players into the scene, and added 
14, It be- Scenic painting. Further still, the magnitude [of 
comes tragedy increased] from small fables and ridiculous 
ape diction, in consequence of having been changed from 
satyric® composition, it was late before it acquired 
dignity. The metre also of tragedy, from tetrameter, 
became Iambic (for at first they used tetrameter in 
tragedy, because poetry was then satyrical, and more 
adapted to the dance, but dialogue being adopted, 
suitable nature herself discovered a suitable metre; for the 
Sa aa Iambic measure is most of all adapted to conversation. 
metre, And as an evidence of this, we most frequently speak 
in Iambics in familiar discourse with each other; but 
we seldom speak in hexameters, and then only when 
we depart from that harmony which is adapted to 
conversation). Again, tragedy is said to have been 
further adorned, with a multitude of episodes, and 
other particulars. Let, therefore, thus much said 
suffice concerning these things; for it would perhaps 
be a great toil to discuss every particular. 

* See my introduction to Aéschylus, p. vii. ed. Bohn. 

§ See ibid. note. 

6. Satyric, from the share which those fantastic beings called 
Satyrs, the companions and play-fellows of Bacchus, had in the 
earliest Tragedy, of which they formed the chorus. Joking and 
dancing were essential attributes of these rustic semi-deities. 
Hence the “ludicrous language’’ and the “ dancing genius” 
of the old Tragedy, to which the Trocuaic or running metre 
δος spoken of was peculiarly adapted ; being no other than 

ΙΒ: 

“Jolly mortals, fill your glasses, noble deeds are done by 

wine.” 

The reader will not confound satyric with satiric; nor the 


Kawah fis. Sepp riarahe, Wrrrur arch Hs clan ea 


‘ 


15 


omar. Ὁ. POETIC 415 


CHAP. V. 


On Comedy, and its Origin— Difference of Epopee and 
ragedy. 


But comedy is, as we have said, an imitation in- 
deed of bad characters, yet it does not imitate them 
according to every vice, [but the ridiculous only ;] 
since the ridiculous is a portion of turpitude. For 
the ridiculous is a certain error, and turpitude un- 
attended with pain, and not destructive. Thus, for 
instance, a ridiculous face is something deformed and 
distorted without pain. The transitions, therefore, 
of tragedy, and the causes through which they are 
produced, are not unknown; but [those of ] comedy 
have escaped our knowledge, because it was not at 
first an object of attention. For it was late before 
the magistrate gave a chorus to comedians!; but 
prior to that period, the choruses were voluntary. 
Comedy, however, at length having obtained a certain 
form, those who are said to have been poets therein 
are commemorated. But it is unknown who it was 
that introduced masks or prologues,’ or a multitude 
of players, and such like particulars. But Epichar- 
mus and Phormis [were the first] to compose fa- 
bles; which, therefore, originated from Sicily. But 
among the Athenians, Crates, rejecting the Iambic? 


Greek satyric drama with the satire of Roman origin. See 
Harris’s Phil. Arrang. p. 460, note. Dacier’s Preface to Ho- 
race’s Satires. The two words are of different derivations. 
Twining. 

1 This was almost equivalent to the modern “licensing” of 
plays, but was probably conducted with more taste and less 
absurdity. The poet was said αἰτεῖν χορὸν, the choragus 
διόόναι, and, if the piece was approved by the archon, the poet 
χορὸν ἔλαβε. See Ritter. 

2 But this is evidently corrupt. Ritter reads λόγους with Her- 
mann, understanding those passages which the single actor 
either recited, or spoke in conversation with the chorus, op- 
posing λόγοι ὑποκριτῶν to th? ἄσματα κωμῳδῶν. 

5 Jambic, i. 6. satirical, and personally so, like the old Iamhé, 


\\ 


1. Come- 
dy an ime 
itation of 
the ridi- 
culous. 


2. Its 
changes 
not 
known. 


4. Simi- 
larity of 
tragedy 
to epic 
poetry. 


δ. Their 
common 
and dis- 
tinctive 
parts, 


416 ARISTOTLE’S [CHAP. VE 


form, first began generally to compose speeches and 
fables. The epopee, therefore, is an attendant on 
tragedy, [with the exception of the long metre 4} 
since through this it is an imitation of worthy cha- 
racters and actions. But it differs from tragedy i in 
that it has a simple metre, and is a narration. It 
also [differs from it] in length. For tragedy is 


_ especially limited by one period of the sun, or ad- 


mits but a small variation from this period; but the 
epopee is not defined within a certain time, and in 
this it differs; though at first they observed the 
same conduct with tragedy®, no less than epic po- 
etry. With respect to the parts, however, [of the 
epopee and tragedy,] some are the same in both, but 
others are peculiar to tragedy. Hence he who knows 
what is a good or bad tragedy, knows the same in 
respect to epic poetry. For those things which the 
epopee possesses are to be found in tragedy, but 
every thing which tragedy contains is not in the 


epopee. 


CHAP. VI. 


On the Form and End of Tragedy, and on its six parts, 
especially the Plot. 


. CONCERNING, therefore, imitative poetry in hexame- 


ters, and comedy, we shall speak hereafter. Let us 
now, however, speak concerning tragedy, assuming 
the definition of its essence as arising from what has 


i- been already said. Tragedy, therefore, is an imita- 


tion of a worthy or illustrious and perfect action, 


invectives, or lampoons, of which Aristotle speaks above, and 
from which the Jambie metre, which is not here alluded to, 
took its name. Twining. 

4 The words μέχρι μόνου μέτρου μεγάλου or μετὰ λόγον are 
thrown out by Ritter, and can have no meaning. 

5 On the question of the unities see Twining, note 43, and 
lay own note on Asch. Eum. 235. 


CHAP. VI.] POETIC. 417 
possessing magnituda, in pleasing language, using 
separately the several'species of imitation in tts parts, 
by men acting, and not through narration, through 


pity and fear effecting a purification from such like 


_passions', But by pleasing language, I mean lan- 
guage possessing rhythm, harmony, and melody. 
And it uses separately the several species [of imita- 
tion], because some parts of the tragedy are alone 
perfected through metres, and others again through 
melody. But since they produce imitation by act- 
ing, in the first place the ornament of the spectacle? 
will be a certain part of the tragedy, and in the next 


place the melopeia*® and the diction. For by these αἱ 


they produce imitation. But I call diction, indeed, 
the composition of the metres; and melopeia that, 
the whole power of which is apparent. Since, how- 
ever, [tragedy | is an imitation of action, and action 
is effected by certain agents, who must needs be per- 
sons of a certain description both as to their manners 
and their sentiments‘, (for from these we say that 


1 On the different interpretations of this difficult passage, 
see Twining, note 45. Ritter has followed the views of Les- 
sing, in a note too full of argument to admit of condensation. 
Taylor’s note is, as usual, a blundering Neo-Platonic attempt 
to reconcile the discrepancies of Aristotle and Plato. 

2 Decoration—literally, the decoration of the spectacle, or 
sight. In other places it is called the spectacle, or sight only 
—déiyis. It comprehends scenery, dresses—the whole visible 
apparatus of the theatre. I do not know any single English 
word that answers fully to the Greek word. Twining. — 

3 Melopeia—liiterally, the making, or the composition, of the 
Music; as we use Epopeia, or according to the French termina- 
tion, which we have naturalized, Epopee, to signify epic poetry, 

‘or epic-making, in general.—I might have rendered it, at once, 
the music; but that it would have appeared ridiculous to ob- 
serve, of a word so familiar to us, even that “‘its meaning is 
obvious.’? Twining. 5 og 

* Dianoia—é.avoia, in a general way, may be defined to be 
διεξοδικὴ τοῦ λόγου éveoyeia, i. 6. the discursive energy of rea~ 
son. But accurately speaking, it is that power of soul which 
reasons scientifically, deriving the principles of its reasoning from 
sntellect. This latter definition, however, pertains to it, so far 
as it is not influenced in its reasonings by imagination and false 
opinions. Tay Lor, who objects to translating it “sentiments.” 
I prefer following Twining, understanding sentiments not exe 


3. Its lane 
guage, 
and dif- 
ferent 
manners 
of imita- 
tion : 


5. Two 
causes of 
action, 
senti- 
ments, 
and meral 
habit. 


418 ARISTOTLE'S CHAP. YI. 


6. Defini- 
_ tion of fa- 
ble, man- 
ners, and 
senti- 
ment, 


7. Six 
parts in 
every tra- 
βοάν. 


8. Some 
tragic po- 
ets use all 
these 


parts, 


9. Trage- 
dy an imi- 
tation of 
actions. 
10. What 
consti- 
tutes cha-. 
racter. 
Manner 
not the 
end of tra- 

edy ; 

1. but 
action. 


actions derive their quality, ) hence there are naturally 
two causes of actions, sentiments and moral habit, 
and through these actions all men obtain or fail of 
the object of their wishes. But a fable, indeed, is 
an imitation of action; for I mean by a fable here, 
the composition of incidents. By manners, I mean 
those things according to which we say that agents 
are persons of a certain character; and by sentiment, 
that through which those who speak demonstrate any 
thing, or explain their meaning. It is necessary, 
therefore, that the parts of every tragedy should be 
six, from which the tragedy derives its quality. But 
these are, fable and manners, diction and sentiment, 
spectacle and melépmia. Of these parts, however, 
two pertain to the means by which they imitate ; one, 
to the manner; and three, to the objects®. And be- 
sides these, there are no other. [Not a few [tragic 
poets |, therefore, as I may say, use all these parts’. | 
For every tragedy has scenic apparatus, manners, 
and a fable, and melody, and, in a similar manner, 
sentiment. But the greatest of these is the combina- 
tion of the incidents. For tragedy is an imitation not 
of men, but of actions, [of life, and of felicity. For 
infelicity consists in action, and the end is a certain 
action, and not a quality’.] Men, however, are per- 
sons of a certain character, according to their man- 


‘ners; but aecording to their actions, they are happy, 
_or the contrary. The end of tragedy, therefore, 


does not consist in imitating manners, but it embraces 
manners on account of actions; so that the action 
and the fable are the end of tragedy. But the end 
is the greatest of all things. Moreover, without ac- 
tion, tragedy cannot exist; but it may exist without 


pressed, (γνώμαι, cf. Rhet. ii. 21,) but in the mind, and form- 
ing the mainspring of action. 

5 i. 6. λέξις and μελοποιία are the means or instruments, 
ὄψις the manner, μῦθος, ἤθη, and dtavoia, the objects. 

6 An evident interpolation. See Ritter. 

7 Thus stands the text, as freed from the additions made by 
Aldus, or other Italian critics. But the whole passage is pro- 
bably an interpolation, as Ritter seems to have clearlv showy, 
See his judicious note. 


cuar. vi. | POETIC. 419 


manners. For most modern tr:gedies are without 
manners; and in short, many poets are such as 
among painters Zeuxis is when compared with Poly- 
gnotus. For Polygnotus, indeed, painted the man- 
ners. of the good; but the pictures of Zeuxis are 
without manners. Further still, if any one place in 
a continued series moral speeches, sayings, and senti- 
ments well framed, he will not produce that which is 
the work of tragedy; but that will be much more a 
tragedy, which uses these things as subordinate, and 
which contains a fable and combination of incidents. 
Add to this, that the greatest parts by which fable 
allures the soul, are the revolutions and discoveries. 
Again, it is likewise an evidence of this, that those 
who attempt to write tragedies, acquire the power of 
expressing a thing in tragic diction and manners ac- 
curately, before they can compose a fable, as was the 
case with nearly all the first poets. The fable, there- 


fore, is the principal part, and as it were the soul of 


tragedy ; but the manners are next in rank®. [Just as 
in painting, if any one were to spread the most beauti- 
ful pigments on promiscuously, he would not please 
the view so much as by outlining an image with white 
colour only. Tragedy also is an imitation of action, 
and on this account, especially, [an imitation] of 
agents. But the sentiments rank third. And by them 
[I mean] the power of explaining what is inherent 
in the subject, and adapted to it, which is the pecu- 
liar province of politics? and rhetoric. For the an- 
cient poets represent those whom they introduce as 
speaking politically; but those of the present day, 
rhetorically. But the manners are, whatever shows 
what the deliberate choice is. Hence those speeches 
are without manners, in which there is altogether 


® The rest of this chapter is condemned by Ritter as an in- 
terpolation. 

9 The reader, here, must not think of our modern politics. 
—The political, or civil art, or science, was, in Aristotle’s view, 
of wide extent and high importance. It comprehended ethics 
and eloguence, or the art of public speaking; every thing, in 
short, that concerned the well-being of a state.—See note 57. 
Twining. 


12. Prvof, 


13. The — 
revolu- 
tion and 
discovery 
cause 
most plea- 


18. Of 
diction. 


19. Melo- 
peia and 
spectacle, 

the latter 

least per- 

taining to 
art, 


420 ARISTOTLE’S [cHAP. VA 


nothing that the speaker may choose or avoid'®. But 
sentiment is that through which they show that a cer- 


sc - κι 


diction 1s interpretation by the means of words, and 
which also has the same power in verse and prose. 
But of the remaining five, the melopeeia is the great- 
est of the embellishments. But the scenic decora- 
tion is alluring indeed; yet it is most inartificial, 
and is in the smallest degree akin to poetry. For 
the power of tragedy remains, even when unaccom- 
panied with scenic apparatus and players. And 
further still, the art of the mechanic possesses more 
power in constructing the scenic apparatus than that 
of the poet. | 


CHAP. VII. 
On the Requisites and Length of Tragic Action. 


Turse things being defined, let us in the next place 
show what the combination of the incidents ought to 
be, since this is the first and greatest part of tragedy. 
But it is granted to us, that tragedy is the imitation 
of a perfect and whole action, and of one which pos-_ 
sesses a certain magnitude; for there may be a whole 
which has no magnitude. But a whole is that which 
has a beginning, middle, and.end. And the begin- 
ning is that which necessarily is not itself posterior 
to another thing; but another thing is naturally ex- 
pected to follow it. On the contrary, the end is that 
which is itself naturally adapted to be posterior to an- 
other thing, either from necessity, or for the most part; 
but after this there is nothing else, But the middle 
is that which is itself after another thing, and after 
which there is something else. Hence, it is necessary 
that those who compose fables properly, should neither 
10 These words are differently placed in some editions. 


CHAP. VII.} POETIC. 425 


begin them casually, nor end the:n casually, but should 

employ the above-mentioned forms [of beginning, 

middle, and end]. Further still, since that which is 4. Magni. 

beautiful, whether it be an animal, or any thing else tude and 
ig ee : order the 

which is composed frorn certain parts, ought not only constitu. 

to have these parts arranged, but a magnitude also ents of 

which is not casual. For the beautiful consists in beauty. 

magnitude and order. Hence, neither can any very 

small animal be beautiful; for the survey of it is 

confused, since it is effected in a time nearly in- 

sensible. Nor yet a very large animal; for it is not 

surveyed at once, but its subsistence as one and a 

whole escapes the view of the spectators; such as if, 

for instance, it should be an animal of ten thousand 

stadia in length. Hence, as in bodies and in animals 5. Magni 

it is necessary there should be magnitude; but such at ol 

as can easily be seen; thus also in fables, there to plots; 

should be length, but this such as can easily be re-_ 

membered’, The definition, however, of the length 6. Istly, 

with reference to contests* and the senses, does not ΕΝ 

fall under the consideration of art. For if it were hibitions. 

requisite to perform a hundred tragedies, [as is said 

to have been the case more than once’, | the perform- 

ance ought to be regulated by a clepsydra. But the 7. 2ndly, 

definition [of the length of the fable] according to the se to in- 

nature of the thing, is this, that the fable is always Value, 

more beautiful the greater it is, if at the same time 

it is perspicuous. Simply defining the thing, however, 

we may say, [that a fable has an appropriate magni- 

tude, | when the time of its duration is such as to_ 

render it probable that there can be a transition from 

prosperous to adverse, or from adverse to prosperous 

ortune, according to the necessary or probabie order 


--- 


1 The unity here spoken of, it must be remembered, is not 
absolute and simple, but relative and compound, unity; a unity 
consisting of different parts, the relation of which to each 
other, and to the whole, is easily perceived at one view. On 
this depends the perception of beauty in form.—In objects tco 
extended, you may be said to have parts, but no whole: in 
Yery minute objects the whole, but no parts. Twining. 

2 j. e. to its representation at the dramatic contests. 

8 These words are condemned by Ritter. 


1. On 
dramatic 


unity, 


2. Previ- 
vious mis- 
concep- 
tions on 
the sub- 
ject. 

3. Con- 
duct of 
Homer. 


4. Appli- 
cation of 
unity to 
the plot. 


422 ARISTOTLE’S [ CHAP. ὙΠ 


of things as they take place. This is a sufficient 
definition of magnitude, 


CHAP. VIII, 
On the Unity of the Fable. 


TueE fable, however, is one, not as some suppose, if 
one person is the subject of it; for many things 
which are infinite in kind happen [to one manj, 
from a certain number of which no one event arises, 
Thus, also, there are many actions of one man, from 
which no one action is produced. Hence all those 
poets appear to have erred who have written the 
Heracleid, and Theseid, and such like poems. For 
they suppose that because Hercules was one person, 
it was fit that the fable should be one. Homer, how- 
ever, as he excelled in other things, appears likewise 
to have seen this clearly, whether from art, or from 
nature. For in composing the Odyssey, he has not 
related every thing which happened to Ulysses; such 
as the being wounded in Parnassus!, and pretending 
to be insane? at the muster of the Greeks; one of 
which taking place, it was not necessary or probable 
that the other should happen; but he composed the 
Odyssey, as also his Iliad, upon one® action. It is 
requisite, therefore, that as in other imitative arts 
one imitation’ is the imitation of one thing, thus, 


1 This incident is, however, related, and at considerable 
length, in the xixth book of the Odyssey, (v. 563 of Pope’s 
translation,) but digressively, and incidentally; it made no 
essential part of his general plan. Twining. 

2 A ridiculous story.—‘“‘ To avoid going to the Trojan war, 
Ulysses pretended to be mad; and, to prove his insanity, went 
to plough with an oz and a horse; but Palamedes, in order to 
detect him, laid his infant son, Telemachus, in the way of the 
plough; upon which Ulysses immediately stopped, and there- 
by proved himself to be in his right senses.” —(Hyginus, ete.) 
Twining. 

3 I follow Ritter’s text. 

* i. e. one imitative work. Thus ome picture represents, ὃ 


CHAP. IX.J ; POETIC. 493 


also, [in tragedy, ] the fable, since it is an imitation 
of action, should be the imitation of one action, and 
of the whole of this, and that the parts of the trans-_ 
actions should be so arranged, that.any one of them _ 
being transposed, or taken away, the whole would _ 
become different and changed. For that which 
when present or not present produces no sensible 
[difference], is not a part of the fable*, 


CHAP, IX. 


On the difference between History and Poetry, and how his- 
torical matter should be used in Poetry. 


Bor it is evident from what has been said, that it is 1. The 


not the province of a poet to relate things which poet does 
have happened, but such as might have happened, DotTelate 


and such things as are possible according to proba- events, 
bility, or which would necessarily have happened!. 
For an historian and ἃ poet do not differ from each 92, fortien 


other, because the one writes in verse and the other he would 
i clash with 


in prose; for the history of Herodotus might be he nisto- 
written in verse, and yet it would be no less a history rian. 


should represent, but one thing ;—a single object, or a single 

action, etc. So, every poem (the Orlando Furioso as much as 

the Iliad) is one imitation—one imitative work, and should 

imitate one action, in Aristotle’s sense of unity, like the poems 

of Homer; not a number of actions unconnected with each 

other, or connected merely by their common relation to one Φ 
person, as in the Theseids, etc., or to one time, as in the poem 

of Ariosto; or, by their resemblance merely, as in the Me- 
tamorphoses of Ovid. Twining. 

5 “The painter will not inquire what things may be ad- 
mitted without much censure. He will not think it enough to 
show that they may be there, he will show that they must be 
there; that their absence would render his picture maimed and 
defective.—They should make a part of that whole which would 
be imperfect without them.”’—Sir J. Reynolds, Disc. on Paint- 
ing, p- 106. Twining. 

1 Cf. Sheridan’s Critic, vii. 1. ‘‘ What the plague! a play 
is not to show occurrences that happen every day, but thi 
just so strange, that though they never did, they might happen.” 

2F 


“424 ARISTOTLE’S omar. 1x. 


with metre, than without metre. But they differ in 
this, that the one speaks of things which have hap- 
pened, and the other of such.as might have happened. 
3. Hence Hence, poetry is more philosophic, and more deserv- 
poctry ing of attention, than history. For poetry speaks 
universa . . . 
and phi- -more of universals, but history of particulars, But 
losophic. universal consists indeed in relating or performing 
ΤΌΣ certain things which happen to a man of a certain 
universal description, either probably or necessarily, [to which 
and par- the aim of poetry is directed in giving names*;] but 
ticular, particular consists in narrating what, [for example, ] 
5. Asis Alcibiades did, or what he suffered. In comedy, 
evident in therefore, this is. now become evident. For [comic 
comedy. oets] having composed a fable through things of a 
probable nature, they thus give whatever names they 
please® to their characters, and do not, like Iambic 
6. Real poets, write poems about particular persons. But in 
names re- tragedy they cling to real names. ‘The cause, how- 
meg όσοι ever, of this is that the possible is credible. Things, 
’ therefore, which have not yet been done, we do not 
yet believe to be possible; but it is evident that 
things which have been done are possible; for they 
would not have been done, if they were impossible. 
7. putnot Not, indeed, but that in some tragedies there are one 
real or two of known names, and the rest are feigned ; 
aay but in others there is no known name; as, forinstance, 
dora mamckov in the Flower of Agatho. For in this tragedy, the 
Se ( αὐλῷ. things and the names are alike feigned, and yet it 
‘Sine 8.Nor delights no less. Hence, one must not seek to ad- 


--..----  - 


mustwe here entirely to traditional fables, which are the sub- 


ΡῈ jects of tragedy. For it is ridiculous to make this 
ourselves the object of search, because even known subjects are 


to tradi- known but toa few, though at the same time they 
tional fa- 


bles. 


3 Ritter well observes that the perspicuity of this otherwise 
clear passage is destroyed by this absurd interpolation. 

3 Thus nearly all the names in the tragedies of Terence and 
Plautus, thus Dromo and Sosia are applied to slaves, Pamphi- 
lus to a lover, Glycerium or Philumena to a lady, Pyrgopoli- 
nices or Thraso to soldiers. Also the names in Petronius and 
Apuleius, as Pannychis, Meroe Fotis, etc. So Ben Jonson 
has personified the virtues and vices in ‘‘ Cynthia’s Revels,” 
and elsewhere. . = uae 


CHAP. IX.; ° .PCETIC... .. ἐν 


delight all men. - From these things, therefore, it is 9. Hence 
evident that a poet.ought rather to be the author. the plot, 


f P th 
of fables than of metres, inasmuch as he is a poet fee vile 


rom imitation, and he imitates actions. Hence, metre, is 
though it should happen that he relates things which obs ace 
have. happened, he is no less a poet. For nothing | 
hinders but that some actions which have happened, 

are such as might both probably‘ and possibly have 
happened, and by [the narration of] such he is a 

poet. 


But of simple plots and actions, the episodic are 10. Ob- 
theworst. But I call the plot episodic, in which it is sock te, 
neither probable nor necessary thatthe episodes fnition 
follow each other, Such plots, however, are com- ἐν ΡΜ: 
4 Τὸ may appear to the reader to be a strange observation, re 


that ‘‘ some true events May be probadle.’’ But he will recol- 
lect what sort of events, and what sort of probability, Aristotle 
here speaks of: i. e. of extraordinary events, such as Poetry 
requires, and of that more strict and penfect probability, that 
closer connexion and visible dependence of circumstances, 
which are always required from the poet, though in such 
events, not often to be found in fact, and real life, and there- 
fore not expected from the historian. 
Aristotle alludes to these two lines of Agatho: 


Tay’ ἄν τις εἰκὸς αὐτὸ Tar’ εἶναι λέγοι, 
Βροτοῖσι πολλὰ τυγχάνειν ἐκ εἰκότα. 


Even this, it may be said, is probable, 
That many things improbable should happen, 
In human life.— 


See Rhet. ii. 24, 10, and Bayle’s Dict. Art. AGaTHon, 
note [Fr], who mentions a similar maxim of St. Bernard’s: 
*‘ Ordinatissimum est, minus interdum ordinaté fieri.” “ Il 
est tout a fait de l’ordre, que de tems en tems il se- fasse 
quelque chose contre l’ordre.”’ 

This general, and, if I may call it so, possible sort of proba- 
bility, may be termed, the probability of romance; and these 
lines of Agatho furnish a good apologetical motto for the novel 
writer. It might be prefixed, perhaps, without impropriety, 
even to the best productions of the kind—to a CLarissa, or a 
Crecit1a. Nothing is so commonly complained of in such 
works, as their improbability ; and often, no doubt, the com- 
plaint is well-founded: often, however, the criticism mcans 
nothing more, than that the events are uncommon, ard proves 
nothing more, than the want of fancy, and an extended view 
of human life, ip. the reader. If the events were not uncommon, 
where would the book find Pace Twining. 

28 : 


11, De- 
finition of 
the terri- 
ble. 


12, Of 
chance 
circum- 
stances, 


1, Of fa- 
bles sim- 
ple and 

complex, 


426 ARISTOTLE’S “SHAP. X. 


posed by bad poets indeed, through their own want 
of ability5; but by good poets, on account of the 
players®. For, introducing [dramatic] contests, and 
extending the plot beyond its capabilities, they are 
frequently compelled to distort the connexion of the 
parts. But, since tragedy is not only an imitation 
of a perfect action, but also of actions which are ter- 
rible and piteous, and actions principally become 
such, [and in a greater degree, when they happen 
contrary to opinion,’] on account of each other. 
* * * * For thus they will possess more of the 
marvellous, than if they happened from chance and 
fortune ; since, also, of things which are from for- 
tune, those appear to be most admirable, which seem 
to happen as it were by design. Thus the statue of 
Mityus at Argos, killed him who was the cause of 
the death of Mityus by falling as he was surveying 
it. For such events as these seem not to take place 
casually. Hence it is necessary that fables of this 
kind should be more beautiful. ) 


CHAP. X. 
Fables either simple or compound. 


Or fables, however, some are simple, and others 
complex; for so also are the actions of which fables 
are the imitations. But I call the action simple, 


a en ee 


5 Such is the sense of δι᾽ adrods=“ propter ingenii tarditatem.”’ 
Ritter. 

6 i. 6. that the play may not show off only one actor. Thus 
a modern dramatist writes a play for Charles Kean, and puts 
in a few episodes for Buckstone or Keeley. It is clear from 
this that plays were often written to suit particular performers. 

7 These words are condemned as interpolated. But the 
apodosis to the whole sentence is wanting, and I have therefore 
marked the lacuna with Ritter. 

* A similar story of the death of a cruel beloved being killed 
by the falling of a statue of Cupid, is told by Theocritus, Id 
xxiii. sub fin. 


CHAP. XIe| POETIC. 42, 


from which taking place, as it has been defined, 
with continuity and unity, there is a transition with- 


out either revolution or discovery; but complex, from 
γερο — 3°, % . . 

which there is a transition, together with discovery, 
or revolution, or both. It is necessary, however, 
that these should be effected from the composition 
itself of the fable, so that from what has formerly 
happened it may come to pass that the same things 
take place either necessarily or probably. For it 
makes a great difference whether these things are 
effected on account of these, or after these. 


CHAP. XI. 
oe + Gre hewmt 
Now, revolution is a mutation, as has been stated, of 
actions into a contrary condition ; and this, as we say, 
according to the probable, or the necessary. Thus 
in the “ Cidipus,'” the messenger who comes with an 
intention of delighting Gidipus and liberating him 
from his fear respecting his mother, when he makes 
himself known, produces a contrary effect. Thus, 
too, in the “ Lynceus,” he indeed is introduced as one 
who is to die, and Danaus follows with an intention 
of killing him; but it happens from the course of in- 
cidents, that Lynceus is saved, and Danaus is slain. 
And discovery is, as the name signifies, a change 
from ignorance to knowledge, or into the friendship 
or hatred of those who are destined to prosperous or 
adverse fortune. The discovery, however, is most 
beautiful, when at the same time there are, as in the 
“ (Edipus,?” revolutions. There are, therefore, other 
discoveries also. For sometimes it happens, as has 
been before observed, that there are discoveries of 
things inanimate, and casual; or if some one has 


1 Cf. Soph. Géd. Tyr. 1014, sqq. Dind. 
3 Such is the discovery of Joseph by his brethren, Gen. xlv. 
—the most beautiful and affecting example that can be given. 


Twining. 
# I do not understand Aristotle to be here speaking of such 


Aad 


1, Defini- 
tion of ree _ 
volution ; 


2. of dis- 
covery. 


3. Other 
recogni- 
tions. 


δ. 


- 


422 ἈΒΙΒΙΌΟΤΙΕΕΒ ἔσαν. xi 


Larolis> ,sttanlef performed, or has not performéd, a thing, there is a 


recognition of it; but the discovery which especially 


' pertains to the fable and the action is that before 


4. Feel- 
ings ex- 
cited by 
revolu- 
tion and 
discovery. 


δ. Differ- 
ent disco- 
veries. 


6. The 
third re- 
‘quisite is 
pathos or 
disaster. 


mentioned. For a discovery and revolution of this 
kind will excite either pity or fear; and tragedy is 
supposed to be an imitation of such actions [as excite 


‘fear and pity}. Again, it will happen that in- 


felicity and felicity will be in such like discover- 
ies. But since diseovery is a discovery of certain 
persons, some [discoveries] are of one person only 
with reference to another, when it is evident who the 
other person is, but sometimes it is necessary to dis- 
cover both persons. _Thus Iphigenia was recognised 
by Orestes through the sending an epistle*; but 
another discovery was requisite to his being known 
by Iphigenia®. [| 'Two parts of the fable, therefore, viz. 
revolution and diseovery, are conversant with these 
things; but the third part is pathos. And of these, 
revolution and discovery have been already discussed. 
Pathos, however, is an action destructive, or lament- 


able ; such as death when it is obvious, grievous pains, 
-wounds, and such like particulars®.] . 


CHAP. XII. 
On the Parts of Tragedy. 


[Burt we have before spoken of the parts of tragedy 
which are requisite to constitute its quality. The 
parts of tragedy, however, according to quantity, and 


discoveries of “‘ inanimate things” (rings, bracelets, etc.) as are 
the means of bringing about the true discovery—that of the 
persons. For, in what follows, it is implied that these “‘ other 
sorts of discovery” produce neither terror nor pity, neither hap- 
piness nor unhappiness ; which can by no means be said of such 
discoveries as are instrumental to the personal discovery, and, 
through that, to the catastrophe of the. piece. Of these, he 
treats afterwards.—Dacier, I think, has mistaken this. Twi- 
or Eur. Iph. Taur. 759. 92. 5 Ibid. 81]. 26. 

» . The whole of this paragraph is condemned by Ritter, . 


CHAP XIi.] > POETIC. 429 


into which it is separately divided, are as follow: 
prologue,' episode,’ exode,’ and chorus, of the parts 
of which one is the parodos,* but the other is the sta- 
simon.> ‘These hate parts, therefore, are common 
to all [tragedies|; but the peculiar parts are [the 
songs| from the scene and the kommoit. And. the 
prologue, indeed, is the whole part of the tragedy, 
prior to the entrance of the chorus. The episode - 15 
the whole part of the tragedy between two complete 


2, Pro- 
logue. 
Episode. 


odes of the chorus. The exode is the whole part of Exode. 


the tragedy, after which there is no further melody 
of the chorus. ‘And of the chorus, the parodos, in- 
deed, is the first speech of the whole chorus; but the 
stasimon is the melody of the chorus, without ana- 
pest and trochee: and the commos' is the common 
lamentation of the chorus and from the scene. But 
we have before shown what the parts of tragedy are 
which must necessarily be used; but the parts of it 
according to quantity, and into which it is separately 
divided, are these’. ] 


1 Prologue—This may be compared to our first act. See 
note 40. Twining. 

2 Episode—i. e. a part introduced, inserted, etc., as all the 
dialogue was, originally, between the choral odes. Twining. 

3 Exode—i. 6. the going out, or exit; the concluding act, as 
we should term it. The Greek ha ρανας never finished with a 
choral ode. ‘Twining. 

* Parode—i. e. entry of the chorus upon the stage : and 
hence the term was applied to what they first sung, upon their 
ἘΣ Twining. 

5 ‘Stasimon—i. 6. stable; because, as it is explained, these 
odes were sung by the choral troop when fixed on the stage, 
and at rest: whereas the parode is said to have been sung as 
they came on. _ Hence, the trochaic and anapestic measures, 
being lively and full of motion, were adapted to the ον δ, but 
not to the stasimon. Twining. 

6 From a verb signifying to beat or strike; alluding to the 

gestures of violent grief. 
_ 7 Ritter, who has illustrated this whole chapt ter with great 
learning and taste, allows its utility, but doubts that it is the 
work of Aristotle. The, reader will find his remarks on the 
different parts of tragedy very valuable. 


Parodos, 


Stasimon 


Commos, 
3. 


2. Wes 

e 
Dhow not 
be simple. 
Proper 
vicissi- 
cudes. 


nobalt 


Mor 


ys 
or 8 The 


character 
of the 
hero must 
be of a 
moderate 


430 ARISTOTLE’S |cHaP. XIIB 


CHAP. XIII. 
The Essentials for a Tragic Plot. 


In the next place we must show, as consequent 
to what has been said, what those who compose 
fables ought to aim at, and beware of, and whence 
the purpose of tragedy is effected. Since, therefore, 
it is necessary that the composition of the most beau- 
tiful tragedy should not be simple, but complex, and 
that it should be imitative of fearful and piteous ac- 
tions—(for this is the peculiarity of such imitation) 
—in the first place it is evident, that it is not proper 
that worthy men should be represented as changed 
from prosperity to adversity, (for this is neither a 
subject of terror nor commiseration, but is impious, ) 
nor should depraved characters [be represented as 
changed | from adversity to prosperity ; for this is the 
most foreign from tragedy of all things, since it pos- 
sesses nothing which is proper ; for it neither appeals 
to moral sense’, nor is piteous, nor fearful. Nor, 
again, must a very depraved man be represented as 
having fallen from prosperity into adversity. For 
such a composition will indeed possess moral tend- 
ency, but not pity or fear. For the one is conversant 
with a character which does not deserve to be un- 
fortunate; but the other, with a character similar 
[to one’s own]. [And pity, indeed, is excited for one 
who does not deserve to be unfortunate; but fear, for 
one who resembles oneself?]; so that the event will 
neither appear to be commiserable, nor terrible. 
There remains therefore the character between these. 
But a character of this kind is one, who neither ex- 
cels in virtue and justice, nor is changed through 
vice and depravity, into misfortune, from a state of 


1 Ritter considers τὸ φιλάνθρωπον as a feeling bordering on 
ἔλεος, “id quidem quod prope ad miserationem accedit.” It 
probably is best expressed by our “‘ humanity,” considered in 
both its senses. 

3 Ritter condemns these words as a marginal annotation. 


CHAP. XIII. ] POETIC. 431 


great renown and prosperity, but has experienced excel- 
this change through some [human] error; such as ened 
€Edipus and Thyestes, and other illustrious men of ty: 
this kind. Hence it is necessary that a plot which 4. Simple 
is well constructed, should be rather single? than fble pre 
twofold, (though some say it should be the latter,) twofold. 
and that the change should not be into prosperity 

from adversity, but on the contrary into adversity 

from prosperity, not through depravity, but through 

some great error, either of such a character [as we 

have mentioned |, or better rather than worse. But δ, Proof 
the proof of this is what has taken place. For of old from the 


the poets adopted any casual fables; but now the ον ἡπαρ δ 


Orestes, Meleager, Thyestes, and Telephus‘4, and such 

other persons as happen either to have suffered or 

done things of a dreadful nature. The tragedy, there- 

fore, which is most beautiful according to art, is of 

this construction. Hence they erroneously blame 6, Anun- 
Euripides, who accuse him.-of having done this in his happy 
tragedies, and for making many of them terminate in por agi 
misfortune. For this method, as we have said, is tragedy, 
right ; of which this is the greatest evidence, that in 

the scenes, and contests of the players, simple fables 

which terminate unhappily appear to be most tra- 

gical, if they are properly acted. And Euripides, 

though he does not manage other things well, yet 

appears to be the most tragic of poets®, The fable, 7. but 
however, ranks in the second place, though by some ee 
it is said to be the first composition, which has a °°?" 
twofold construction, such as the Odyssey, and which 
terminates in a contrary fortune, both to the better 


* What is here meant by a single fable, will appear presently 
from the account of its opposite—the double fable. It must 
not be confounded with the simple fable, though in the original 
both are expressed by the same word, The simple fable is 
only a fable without revolution, or discovery. Twining. 

* The same remark applies to the French tragic stage. 

5 But below, xv. 5. and Eth, iii. 1, Euripides is justly charged 
with the improper introduction of comic characters and lan- 
guage. The praise applies only to the catastrophe. 


432 ARISTOTLE’S {cHaP. XIv.> 


and worse characters. It appears, however, to rank re 
i in the first place, through the imbecility of the spec- ὑπ 

8. andthe tators®. - For the poets, in composing their plots, ac-” 

happy  commodate themselves to the wish of the spectators. 

oe This pleasure, however, is not [properly] derived 

ferred. from tragedy, but is rather suited to comedy. For 
there, though the greatest enemies be introduced, as 
Orestes and A®gisthus, yet in the end they depart 
friends, and no one falls by the hand of the other’. 


CHAP. XIV. 
Of Terror and Pity. 


1. Terror TERROR and pity, therefore, may be produced from 


— pity, the sight!. But they may also arise from the com- 
ow pro- 


duced. 6 That weakness which cannot bear strong emotions, even 
: from fictitious distress. 1 have known those who could not 
look at that admirable picture, the Ugolino of Sir Jos. Rey- 
nolds.—To some minds, every thing that is not cheerful is 
shocking.—But,; might not the preference here attributed to 
weakness, be attributed to better causes—the gratification of 
philanthropy, the love of justice, order, etc. ?—the same causes 
which, just before, induced Aristotle himself to condemn, as 
shocking and disgusting, those fables which involve the virtuous 
in calamity. Twining. ; 
Modern audiences partake of this weakness. Thus, the 
catastrophe of “Measure for Measure,” ‘‘Cymbeline,” or 
“‘ Winter’s Tale,” are more satisfactory than those of ‘‘ Ham- 
let”? or ‘‘ Pizarro.’”? Knowles’s “ Hunchback” is a happy 
- Specimen of ἀναγνώρισις, leading to a happy termination; 
while his ‘‘ Wife’’ displeases. Marston’s “ Heart and the 
World,”’ weak as the play is, is more agreeable than his “ Pa- 
trician’s Daughter.’ But, such plays are merely serious 
comedies. 
- 7 This is excellently applicable to the plays of Vanbrugh 
and Cibber. . Compare the conclusions of the ‘* Relapse,’ (Sir 
Tunbelly excepted,) the ‘‘ Provoked Wife,” etc. As to the 
ἀποθνήσκει οὐδεὶς ὑπ᾽ oddevos, it is very descriptive of the dueds 
in a modern or ancient comedy, as in ‘‘ London Assurance,” 
or in. the ‘Beaux Stratagem,’’ according to Scrub’s de- 
scription. STi 
1 See avery pleasant paper of Addison’s on this subject; 
“ Spectator,”” No. 42. We know the effect of the skull and 


‘CHAP. xIv.] ' POETIC. "ὦ 433 


bination of the incidents, which is preferable, and the 
province of a better poet. For it is necessary that 
the fable should be so composed, that he who hears 
the things which are transacted, may be seized with 


horror, and feel pity, from the events, without the. 


assistance of the sight; and in this manner any one 
who hears the fable of C&dipus is affected. But to 
effect this through spectacle is more inartificial, and 
requires great expense”. But they who produce 
not the terrible, but the monstrous alone, through 
scenic representation, have nothing in common with 
tragedy. For it is not proper to expect every kind 
of pleasure from tragedy, but that which is’ ap- 
‘propriate. Since, however, it is necessary that the 
poet should procure pleasure from pity: and fear 
through imitation, it is evident that this must be ef- 
‘fected by the circumstances. Let us, then, ascertain 
what kind of events appear to be dreadful or lament- 
able. But it is necessary that actions of this kind 
should either be those of friends towards each other, 
or of enemies, or of neither. If, therefore, an ene- 
my kills an enemy, he does not show any thing 
which is an object of pity, neither while he does the 
deed, nor when he is about to do it, except what 
arises from the deed itself. And this will; be the 
‘case, when one of those who are neither friends nor 
enemies do the same. But when these things hap- 
pen in friendships*, as when a brother kills a. brother, 
or a son his father, or a mother her son, or a son his 
mother, or intends to do it, or does any thing else of 
the like kind—such subjects are to be sought for. 
“One must not, therefore, [completely] alter the re- 
ceived fables. I mean, for instance, such as the 


2. The 
mon- 
strous not 
tragic, 


3. The 
proper 

‘ pleasure 
to be de- 
rived 
κάτ trae 
gedy, 
4, What 
actions 
are 
dreadful 
or la- 


ment- 
able. 


5. Fur- 


fable of Clytemnestra being slain by Orestes, and of ther pre 


black hangings in the ‘‘ Fair Penitent,”’ the scaffold in “ Venice 
Preserved,’’ the tomb in ‘‘ Romeo and Juliet,” etc. Twining. 
But Ritter understands ὄψις to mean the countenance of the 
actor. 

2 “ Xopnyiav generatim pro pretioso et operoso apparatu et 
apte dici posse et eo intellectu ἢ. 1. accipiendam esse manifea- 
tum est.”’ Ritter. 

3.4.5 in the “ Fatal Curiosity ” of Lillo. Twining, | af 


cepts re- 
specting 


fable. 


6. Exam- 


ples. 


434 ARISTOTLE’S _CHAP. XIV 


Eriphyle by Alemzon. But it is necessary that the 
poet should invent the plot, and use in a becoming 
manner those fables which are handed down. What, 
however, we mean by [using fables] in a becoming 
manner, let us explain more clearly. Now, the action 
may take place in such a way as the ancients have 
represented it, viz. knowingly with intent ; as Euri- 
pides represents Medea killing her children. Men 
may also do an action, who are ignorant of, and 
afterwards discover their connexion [with, the in- 
jured party,| as in the “ Cidipus” of Sophocles. 
This, therefore, is extraneous to the drama‘, but is 
in the tragedy itself; as in the “ Alemzon” of As- 
tydamas, or Telegonus in the “ Ulysses Wounded °.” 
Further still, besides these there is a third mode, 
when some one is about to perpetrate, through ig- 
norance, an atrocious deed, but makes the discovery 
before he does it®. And besides these there is no 
other mode. For it is necessary to act, or not; and 
that knowing, or not knowing. But of these, to in- 
tend to perpetrate the deed knowingly, and not to 
perpetrate it, is the worst; for it is wicked and not 
tragical; because it is void of pathos. [ Hence, no 
poet introduces a character of this kind except 
rarely; as in the “ Antigone,” in which Hemon 
[endeavours to kill his father] Creon, [but does not 


4 The murder of ‘Laius by G£dipus, his son, is supposed to 
have happened a considerable time before the beginning of the 
action. Twining. 

5 Of these two dramas nothing more is known than the little 
that Aristotle here tells us. In the first, the poet adhered so 
far to history, as to make Alcemzon Kill his mother Eriphyle, 
but with the improvement, (according to Aristotle’s idea,) of 
making him do it ignorantly. The story of Telegonus is, that 
he was a son of Ulysses by Circe; was sent by her in quest of 
his father, whom he wounded, without knowing him, in a 
skirmish relative to some sheep, that he attempted to carry off 
from the island of Ithaca. It is somewhat singular, that the 
wound is said to have been given with a kind of Otaheite spear, 
headed with a sharp fish-bone. See Pope’s Odyssey, xi. 167, 
and the no‘e. Twining. 

* Thus wn Talfourd’s “Ion,” Ion discovers Adrastus to be 
his father, just as he is on the point of murdering him, 


CHAP. xv.] - POETIC. 435 


effect his purpose.]7 ] For the action here ranks in 
the second place. But it is better to perpetrate the 
deed ignorantly, and having perpetrated to discover ; 
for then it is not attended with wickedness, and the 
discovery excites horror. The last mode, however, 
is the best; I mean, as in the “Cresphontes,” in 
which Merope is about to kill her son, but does not, 
in consequence of discovering that he was her son. 
Thus, too, in the “Iphigenia in Tauris,” in which 
the sister is going to kill the brother, [but recog- 
nises him ;] and in the “ Helle,” the son is about to 
betray his mother, but is prevented by recognising 
her. Hence, as has been formerly observed, trage- 
dies ‘are not conversant with many families; for 
poets were enabled to discover incident of this kind 
in fables, not from art, but from fortune*. They 
were compelled, therefore, to direct their attention 
to those families in which calamities of this kind 
happened. 

And thus we have spoken sufficiently concerning 
the combination of the incidents, and have shown 
what kind of fables ought to be employed. 


CHAP, XV. 


WirTH respect to manners, however, there are four 
things to which one ought to direct attention: one, 
indeed, and the first, that they be good. But the 
tragedy will indeed possess manners, if, as was said, 
the words or the action render any deliberate inten- 
tion apparent; containing good manners’, if the 
deliberate intention is good. But manners are to be 
found in each genus; for both a woman and a slave 
may be good; though perhaps of these, the one is 


7 Ritter condemns this passage. See also Donaldson, Intro- 
duction to the Antigone, p. xl. 

* i. 6. to history or tradition. [ 

! The interpolation φαῦλον μὲν ἐὰν φαύλη ἢ is rightly thrown 
out by Ritter. . 


8. 


11, 


1. Requi- 
sites 0 
manners, 
that they 
express 
wooaipe- 
as, 


436, ARISTOTLE’S [cHaP. xv 


less good, and the other is wholly bad’, In the 


- second place, the manners must be adapted to the per- 


sons. For there are manners which are character- 


ized by fortitude, hut_it_is not suited to a woman to 
be either brave oF ter plde ‘In the third place, the 
manners must be similar’ For this, as was before 


observed, differs from making the manners to be good 


and adapted‘. In the fourth place, they must be uni- eons2l 


form ;’ for if he is anomalous, who exhibits the imita- 
tion, and expresses such like manners, at the same 
time it is necessary that he should be uniformly un- 
equal. The example, however, of depraved manners 


‘is indeed not necessary; such, for instance, as that of 


Menelaus in the “ Orestes,” but an example of un- 
becoming and unappropriate manners is, the lamenta- 
tion of Ulysses in the tragedy of “ Scylla,°” and the 
speech of Menalippe; and the example of anomalous 
manners in-the Iphigenia in Aulis.. For Iphigenia 


2 This is very Euripidean gallantry. Compare Aristoph. 
046, sqq. 

-.8 This is observed, to show the consistence of this first pre- 
cept with the next. The manners must be drawn as good as 
may be, consistently with the observance of propriety, with 
respect to the general character of different sexes, ages, condi- 
tions, etc. It might have been objected—* You say the charac- 
ter must be good. But suppose the poet has to represent, for 
instance, a slave ?—the character of slaves in general is noto- 
riously bad.’’—The answer is,—any thing may be good in its 
kind. Twining. 

4 This is very trivial, compared with Horace’s description 
of the manners suited to different characters. Cf. Ars Poet 
114, sqq. 

5 Of the Scylla nothing is known.—Some fragments remain 
of “ Menalippe the Wise,” (for this was the title,) a tragedy of 
Euripides, the subject of which is a curiosity. Menalippe was 
delivered of two children, the fruits of a stolen amour with 
Neptune. Τὸ conceal her shame, she hid them in her father’s 
cow-house ; where he found them, and being less of a philoso- 
pher than his daughter, took them for a monstrous production 
of. some of his cows, and ordered them to be burned. Gis 
daughter, in order to save them, without exposing herself, en- 
ters into a long physical argument, upon the principles of Anaz- 
agoras, to cure her father of his unphilosophical prejudices 
about monsters and portentous births, and to convince him 
that these infants might be the natural children of his cows. 
Twining. 


- cHaP. xv.] ’ POETIC: 437 


supplicating does not at all resemble the Iphigenia in 


the latter part of the tragedy. It is requisite, how- 
ever,-in the manners as well as in the combination 
of the incidents, always to investigate, either the ne- 
cessary or the probable ; so that such a person should 
say or do such things, either necessarily or probably ; 
and that it be necessary or probable, that this thing 


should. be done after that. It is evident, therefore, 7. 
_that the solutions of fables ought to happen from the © 


fable itself, and not as in the “ Medea,®” from the 
machinery, and in the tragedy called the “Tliad,”. 
from the particulars respecting the sailing away [from 


Troy’]. But we must employ machinery in things 


which are external to the drama, which either hap- 
pened before, and which it is not possible for men to 
know, or which happened afterwards, and require 
to be previously foretold and announced. For we 
ascribe to the gods the power of seeing all things, but 
we do not admit the introduction of any thing absurd 
in the incidents §, but if it is introduced it must be 
external to the tragedy; as in the “ (édipus” of 
Sophocles. Since, however, tragedy is an imitation 
_of better things, it is necessary that we should im- 


itate good painters. For these, in giving an ap- 
propriate form to the image, depict the similitude, 
but increase the beauty®. Thus, also, it is requisite 
that the poet, in imitating the wrathful and the indo- 
lent, and those who are similarly affected in their 
manners, should form an example of equity, or as- 
perity; such as Agatho and Homer have repre- 
sented Achilles. These things, indeed, it is neces- 
sary to observe; and besides these, such perceptions 
of the senses as are attendant upon poetry, besides 


6 Of Euripides. Medea is carried off, at the end of the tra- 
gedy, in a chariot drawn by flying dragons. Twining. 

7 Pope’s Iliad, ii. 189, etc. Twining. 

8 By incidents of the fable, Aristotle here plainly means all 
those actions or events which are essential parts of the subject or 
story, whether previous to the action, and necessary to be known, 
or included in it, and actually represented in the drama. 

9 This seems intended to explain his third precept, of re- 
semblance in the manners ; to reconcile it with his first, and to 

how what sort of ‘ikeness the nature of tragic —— re- 
uires, Twining. 


the fable, . 
not the 
ma- 
chinery. 


8. Com- Qnrah 
parison 4 Stone 
With _, daolien 


painting W Jr 


3. Their 
use, 


438 ARISTOTLE’S ἴσα». XVI. 


the necessary ones.‘ For in these, errors are fre- 
quently committed. But concerning these things, 
enough has been said in the treatises already pube 
lished. 


CHAP. XVI. 


ΓΙ Wuat discovery, however, is, has been before 
stated. But with respect to the species of recognition, 
the first indeed is the most inartificial, and that which 
most poets use through being at a loss, and is effected 


. through signs. But of these, some are natural, such 


as the “lance with which the earth-born? race are 
marked,” or the stars [on the bodies of the sons] in 
the “Thyestes” of Carcinus. Others are adventi- 
tious, and of these some are in the body, as scars; 
but others are external, such as necklaces; and such 
as [the discovery] through a small boat, in the 
“Tyro%.” These signs also may be used in a better 
or worse manner. ‘Thus Ulysses,‘ through his scar, 
is in one way known by his nurse, and in another by 
the swineherds. For the discoveries which are for 
the sake of credibility, are more inartificial, and all 


10 j, e. to the sight, and the hearing; in other words, to 
actual representation. 

1 The reader, who recollects the conclusion of Sect. 14, 
where the author took a formal leave of the “fable and its 
requisites,” and proceeded to the second essential part of 
tragedy, the manners, will hardly be of Dacier’s opinion, who 
contends that this section is rightly placed. His reasons are 

erfectly unsatisfactory. Twining, I have enclosed it in 
mackets, with Ritter. 

2 The descendants of the original Thebans, who, according 
to the fabulous history, sprung from the earth when Cadmus 
sowed the dragon’s teeth, etc.—This noble race are said to have 
be distinguished by the natural mark of a lance upon their 

odies, 

3 Sophocles wrote two tragedies of this name, neither of 
them preserved.—The story of Tyro leads us to suppose, that 
Aristotle means the little boat, trough, or, as some render it, 
eradle,in which Tyro had exposed her children, on,’or near, the 
river: the particular manner of the discovery it would be in 
vain to guess. 

4 See Pope’s Ohya. xix. νυν. 451, etc., and the note there, 
on v. 461, and xxi. 2 


CHAP. XvI.} . POETIC. 439 


of them are of this kind; but those which a:e from 
revolution, as in the “ Washing of Ulysses®,” are 
better. And those recognitions rank in the second 
place, which are invented by the poet, on which ac- 
count they are inartificial. Thus Orestes in the 
“ Tphigenia” discovers that he is Orestes®. For she 
indeed recognises her brother through a letter, but 
Orestes himself speaks what the poet designs, but not 
what the fable requires ; on which account it is near 
to the above-mentioned error; since he might have 
introduced some [of the real things as signs]. ‘Thus, 
too, in the “ Tereus” of Sophocles, the “ voice of the 
shuttle” [produced a recognition’]. But the third 
mode of discovery is through memory, from the 
sensible perception of something by sight, as in the 
“ Cyprii” of Diczogenes ; for on seeing the picture a 
certain person weeps. And in the “Tale of Alcinous ;” 
for Ulysses, on hearing the lyrist, and recollecting 
the story, weeps ; whence also [all these] were recog- 
nised. The fourth mode of discovery is derived from 
syllogism’, as in the “ Choephore”—a person like 


5 The ancients distinguished the different parts of Homer’s 
poems by different titles accommodated to the different subjects, 
or episodes ; and, in referring to him, they made use of these, 
not of the division into books. Thus, the part of the xixth 
book of the Odyssey above referred to, was called The Wash- 
ing. The Tale of Alcinous was another title, which will 
presently be mentioned. Twining. 

6 I follow Ritter, who supplies “ἰο Iphigenia.”” The older 
editors interpolated the passage. See Ritter’s note on the fol- 
lowing passage. The whole disputation is ‘‘ arguta et obscura,” 
as the learned critic observes. 

7 Taylor’s note is pre-eminently absurd. Tyrwhitt elegantly 
explains the passage thus: κερκίδος φωνὴ is a quotation from 
the play, and denotes the web itself, by means of which Philo- 
mela explained to her sister Procne the injuries she had suffered 
from Tereus, since, her tongue being cut out, she could not 
speak. Cf. Ovid, Met. VI. 424; Hygin. Fab. 45, quoted by 
Ritter, whose note deserves the student’s attention. As the 
web is said to speak, which describes, so the shield of Capaneus 
χρυσοῖς φωνεῖ γράμμασιν, Aisch. Sept. C. Th. 434. 

8 Occasioned by reasoning ;—i. e. by reasoning, (ΟΣ rather, 
inference, or conclusion,) in the person discovered. See the 
note.—It should be remembered, that Aristotle is not, in this 
chapter, inventing τ rans ty enumerating all the kinds 

.G 


4. Invent- 
ed recog- 
nitions. 


5. By me 
mory. 


6. By 
reason- 
ing. 


7. By the 
miscon- 
eeption of 
the audi- 
ence. 


8. The 
best is 
from the 
circum- 
stances 
them- 
selves. 


440 ARISTOTLE’S fcHaP xyt. 


me is arrived—there is no person like me but 
Orestes,—Orestes, therefore, is arrived. Thus too 
in the “Iphigenia®” of Polyides the sophist. For it 
was probable that Orestes would syllogistically con- 
clude, that because his sister had been immolated, 
it would likewise happen to him to be sacrificed. 
Thus also in the “ Tydeus”” of Theodectes, a cer- 
tain person comes to discover his son, and himself 
perishes". Another example also is in the “ Phinide.” 
For the women, on seeing the place, inferred what 
their fate would be, viz. that they must needs perish 
in this place; for they were exposed in it from their 
infancy. There is also a certain compound [{dis- 
covery }, which is produced from the false inference 
of the spectator, as in the “ Ulysses the False Messen- 
ger.” For he says, he should know the bow, which 
he had not seen; but the [audience], as if he must 
be known through this, on this account infer falsely. 
The best recognition, however, of all, is that which 
arises from the things themselves, astonishment being 
excited through probable circumstances; as in the 
“‘(Edipus” of Sophocles and the “Iphigenia ;” (for 
it is probable that she would be willing to send letters ;) 
since such things alone are without fictitious signs and 
necklaces”. But the recognitions which rank in the 
second place, are those which are derived from syl- 
logism. } : 


possible or practicable; but only classing and examining such 
as he found in use, or could recollect, in the tragedies and epic 
poems of his time. ‘Twining. i 

® The subject appears to have been the same as that of th 
Iphigenia in Tauris of Euripides. We are to suppose, that 
Orestes was discovered to his sister by this natural exclama- 
tion, at the moment when he was led to the altar of Diana to 
be sacrificed. Twining. 

10 Of this and the preceding tragedy, we know nothing but 
what we learn here: i. 6. that in the one, a father, and in the 
other, the daughters of Phineus, were discovered, and, proba- 
bly, saved, by those exclamations. Twining. 4 

11 See Ritter. Nothing of this play is known. 

12 ΑἹ] this passage is hopelessly corrupt. 


CRAP XVII. ] POETIC. ati 


CHAP. XVII. 


Ir is necessary, however, that the poet should form 
the plots, and elaborate his diction, in such a manner 
that he may as much as possible place the thing before 
his own eyes', For thus the poet perceiving most 
acutely, as if present with the transactions themselves, 
will discover what is becoming, and whatever is re- 
pugnant will be least concealed from his views An 
evidence of this is the fault with which Carcinus is 
reproached. For Amphiaraus had left the temple, 
which was concealed from the spectator, who did not 
perceive it, and the piece was driven’ from the stage 
in consequence of the indignation of the spectators. 
For the poet as much as possible should co-operate 
with the gestures [of the actor]; since those are 
naturally most adapted to persuade who are them- 
selves under the influence of passion. Hence, also, 
he agitates others who is himself agitated®, and he 
excites others to anger who is himself most truly 
enraged. Hence, poetry is the province either of 
one who is naturally clever, or of one who is insane‘. 


1 i. e. place himself in the position of a spectator. Ritter 
observes that σόν συνίσταντα must be supplied. 

2 ἐκπίπτειν is properly used of the condemnation of a piece. 
See Hemst. on Lucian, Nigrin. § 8. In Demosth. de Coron. 
p- 315, ed. Reisk. it is applied to the actor. Cf. Bud. Com. 
L. Gr. p. 536. There isa pun upon the double meaning of 
the verb. Amphiaraus went (ἐξέπεσε) away, and the piece 
was condemned (ἐξέπεσε) in consequence. 

8 But Twining, in a long and learned note, expresses his 
opinion that χειμαένει may be used in its proper neuter sense, 
and that the meaning may be as follows: ‘‘ The poet should 
work himself, as far as may be, into the passion he is to repre- 
sent, by even assuming the countenance and the gestures 
which are its natural expressions. For they, of course, have 
most probability and truth in their imitation, who actually feel, 
in some degree, the passion: and no one expresses agitation of 
mind (xetuaiver) so naturally, (ἀληθινώτατα,) as he who is 
really agitated, (χειμαζόμενος,) or expresses anger (χαλεπαίνει) 
so naturally, as he who is really angry (ὀργιζόμενος).᾽ 

4 “In an enthusiasm allied to madness,” is Twining’s 
translation, which is all — oe means to say, under- 

ες 


1. Rules 
for re- 
alizing 
ideas. 


2. The 
poet 
should 
feel what 
he writes, 


8. and 
should 
form a 
general 
sketch of 
his plot. 


4, The 

episodes 
must be 
suitable 


5. and 
short. 


442 ARISTOTLE’S lcwar. xvit. 


For of these characters, the one is easily fashioned, 
but the other is prone to ecstasy. It is likewise 
necessary that the poet should in a general way lay 
down the fables composed by others, and those which 
he composes himself, and afterwards introduce epi- 
sodes and lengthen out Ne play]. But I say that 
he should give a general sketch after this manner. 
Thus, for instance, in the “Iphigenia®,” a certain 
virgin on the point of being sacrificed, and vanishing 
from the view of those who were to sacrifice her, and 
being brought to another country in which it was a 
law to sacrifice strangers to a certain goddess, she 
is appointed the priestess of these rites. Some time 
after, it happened that the brother of the priestess 
came to this place; [but on what account? Because 
some god had ordered him, for a certain reason which 
does not pertain to the general view of the tragedy, } 
to come thither, [but why he did so is foreign to the 
fable®]. The brother, therefore, coming, and being 
made captive, discovered [his sister], when he is 
going to be sacrificed ; whether, as Euripides says, [ by 
an epistle, | or, as Polyides feigns, speaking according 
to probability, because he said, it was not only requi- 
site that the sister, but that he also should be sacri- 
ficed :—and hence safety arises. After these things, 
the poet having given names to the persons, should 
insert the episodes; and he must be careful that the 
episodes be appropriate; as that of the insanity 
through which Orestes was taken captive, and his 
being saved through expiation. In dramas, therefore, 
the episodes are short, but by these the epopee is 
lengthened. For the fable of the Odyssey is short, viz. 
a certain man wandering for many years, and perse- 
cuted by Neptune, and left alone. And besides this, 
his domestic affairs being so circumstanced, that his 
standing ‘‘ eos, qui animo commotiores sunt,” as Ritter ren- 
ders it. On the connexion between poetic enthusiasm and 
madness, cf. Plato, Ion. p. 145. C. etc. Pheedr. p. 344. B. Lam. 
with Clemens Alex. Strom. vi. p. 827. Theodoret. Sepam. IL. Ὁ, 
20. Cicer. de Div. I. 37. 


5 Eur. Iph. Taur. 
* The passage is interpolated. See Ritter. 


CHAP. XVII] POETIC. 443 


wealth is consumed Dy suitors, and stratagems are 
plotted against his son. But driven by a tempest, he 
returns, and making himself known to certain per- 
sons, he attacks the suitors, and is himself saved, but 
destroys his enemies, This, therefore, is the peculi- 
arity of the fable, but the rest is episode. 


CHAP. XVIII. 


[In every tragedy, however, there is a complication 
and development’. And external circumstances in- 
deed, and some of those that are internal, frequently 
form the complication; but the rest the development. 
I call, however, the complication, the whole of that 
which extends from the beginning to the last part, 
from which there is a transition to good fortune; 
but I call the development that part which extends 
from the beginning of the transition to the end. 
Thus in the Lynceus of Theodectes, the past trans- 
actions, and the capture of the son, are the compli- 
cation; but the part which extends from the charge 
of murder to the end, is the development. But of 
tragedy there are four species; for so many parts of 
it have also been enumerated. And one species is 
the complicated, of which the whole is revolution 
and discovery; another, the pathetic, such as the 
tragedies of Ajax and Ixion; another, the moral’, 
such as the Phthiotides and the Peleus; but the 


! Literally, the tyiwg and untying. With the French, Neud 
and Denouwement are convenient and established terms. I 
hope I shall be pardoned for avoiding our awkward expres- 
sions of the ixtrigue and unravelling of a plot, etc. I could 
find no terms less exceptionable than those I have used. 
Twining. 

2 j. e. in which the delineation of manmers or character is 
predominant. Our language, I think, wants a word to express 
thie sense of the Greek ἠθικὸν, and the Latin, moratum. Man- 
nered has, I believe, sometimes been used in this sense; but so 
seldom, as to sound awkwardly. We know nothing of the sub- 
jects here given as examples. Twining. — 


at . 


1. Com- 
plication 
and de- 
velop- 
ment. 


2. Four 
species of 
tragedy ; 


3. all 
which the 
poet 
should 
under- 
atand. 


4 On epic 


tragedy. 


δ. Illus- 
trations. 


441 ARISTOTLE’S [cHar. ΧΥ͂ΤΙΣ. 


fourth is another such as the “ Phorcidcs®” and the 
“Prometheus,” and the tragedies which represent 
what passes in Hades. It is especially necessary, 
therefore, that the poet should endeavour to have all 
these species; or at least that he should have the 
greatest and most of them, especially since men of 
the present age calumniate the poets. For as there 
have been good poets in each part of tragedy, they 
now expect one poet to excel in all the parts. But 
it is right to call tragedy different and the same, 
though not perhaps with any reference to the fable ; 
but this [may be the case with those] of which there 
is the same plot and solution. But many poets com- 
plicate well, and develope badly‘. But both these 
should always be applauded®. But it is necessary to 
recollect, as has been often observed, that we must 
not make tragedy an epic system. Now, I call that 
tragedy an epic system, which consists of many 
fables; as if some one should compose a tragedy 
from the whole fable of the Iliad. For in the Iliad, 
on account of its length, the parts receive an appro- 
priate magnitude. But in dramas, the effect pro- 
duced would be very contrary to expectation. The 
truth of this is indicated by such as have repre- 
sented [in one tragedy] the whole destruction of 
Troy, and not some part of it, as the “Niobe” or 
“Medea” of Euripides, and who have not acted 
like Kschylus ; for these have either been condemned, 

3 Eschylus wrote a tragedy so named. It is difficult te 
imagine what he could make of these three curious personages, 
who were born old women, lived under ground, and had but 
one eye among them, which they used by turns; carrying it, I 
suppose, in a case, like a pair of spectacles. Such is the tale! 
Twining. 

4 No fault so common: see note 59. It was with the Greek 
tragedians, probably, as with Shakspeare.—‘‘ In many of his 
plays the latter part is evidently neglected. When he found 
himself near the end of his work, and in view of his reward, he 
shortened the labour, to snatch the profit. He therefore re- 
mits his efforts where he should most vigorously exert them, 
and his catastrophe is improbably produced, or imperfectly 
represented.”? Johnson’s Pref. to Shakspeare. Twining. 

5 This passage is contradictory and unintelligible. Ses 
Bitter, who condemns the whole as spurious. 


CHAP. XVIII. | POETIC. 443 


or contend without success; since Agatho also failed 
in this alone. But in revolutions, and in simple ac- 
tions, those poets admirably effect their aim. For 
this is tragical, and has a moral tendency. This, 
however, takes place when a wise but a depraved 
man, such as Sisyphus, is deceived; and a brave but 
unjust man is vanquished. But this is probable, as 
Agatho says. For it is probable that many things 
may take place contrary to probability. It is neces- 
sary likewise to conceive the chorus to be one of the 
players® and a part of the whole, and that it co-oper- 
ates with the players, not as in Euripides’, but as in 
Sophocles. But with other tragedians, the choral 
songs do not more belong te that fable, than to any 
other tragedy; on which account the chorus sing 
detached pieces, inserted at pleasure’, of which Aga- 
tho was the inventor. What difference, however, 


- Actoris partes chorus, officitumque virile 
Defendat : neu quid medios intercinat actus, 
Quod non proposito conducat et hereat apte. 

Hor. A. P. 193, 

7? This expression does not, I think, necessarily imply any 
stronger censure of Euripides, than that the choral odes of his 
tragedies were, in general, more loosely connected with the 
subject, than those of Sophocles; which, on examination, 
would, I believe, be found true. For that this is the fault here 
meant, not the improper ‘‘ choice of the persons who compose 
the chorus,” as the ingenious translator of Euripides under- 
stands, is, I think, plain from what immediately follows; the 
connexion being this :—‘‘ Sophocles is, in this respect, most 
perfect; Euripides Jess so; as to the others, their choral songs 
are total’y foreign to the subject of their tragedies.” See Pot- 
ter’s Euripides—Postscript to the Trojan Dames. Warton’s 
Essay on the Genius, etc., of Pope, vol. i. p. 71. 

8. It is curious to trace the gradual extinction of the chorus. 
At first, it was all; then, relieved by the intermixture of dia- 
logue, but still principal; then, subordinate to the dialogue; 
then, digressive, and ¢li connected with the piece; then, borrow- 
ed from other pieces at pleasure—and so on, to the fiddles and 
the act-tunes, at which Dacier is so angry. (See his note, p. 
335.) The performers in the orchestra of a modern theatre 
are little, I believe, aware, that they occupy the place, and may 
consider themselves as the lineal descendants, of the ancient 
chorus. Orchestra (6pxno7Tpa) was the name of that part cf the 
ancient theatre which was appropriated to the chorus. ([Jul. 
Pollux, IV. p. 423.] 


7. The 
business 
of the 
chorus 


1, Diction 
and senti- 
ment. 


4. How 
far the 
poet 
should be 


446 ARISTOTLE’S | CHAP. XIX, 


does it make, to sing inserted pieces, or to adapt 
the diction of one drama to another, or the whole 
episode ? 


CHAP. XIX. 


Or the other parts of tragedy enough has now been 
said. But it remains that we should speak concern- 
ing the diction and the sentiments. The particulars, 
therefore, respecting the sentiments, are unfolded in 
the treatise on Rhetoric, to which it more properly 
belongs. But those things pertain to the sentiments, 
which it is requisite to procure by a reasoning pro- 
cess. And the parts of these are, to demonstrate, to 
refute, and to excite the passions; such as pity, or 
fear, or anger, and such like; and besides these, to 


. amplify and extenuate. It is evident, however, that 


in things, also, it is requisite to derive what is useful 
from the same forms, when it is necessary to procure 
objects of pity, or things that are dreadful, or great, 
or probable. Except that there is this difference, 
that things in tragedy ought to be rendered apparent 
without teaching, but in an oration they are to be 
shown by the speaker, and in consequence of the 
speech. For what employment would there be for 
the orator, if the things should appear [ of themselves | 
pleasing, and not through the speech? But of things 
pertaining to diction, there is one species of theory 
respecting the forms of speech’, which it is the pro- 


1 What are we to understand by these σχήματα λέξεως P— 
The learned reader will immediately see, that, as Victorius has 
observed, they are not to be confounded with those σχήματα 
λέξεως, of which we hear so much from Cicero, Quintilian, 
Dion. Hal. etc.,—those “‘ figure verborum,”’ which are opposed 
to the σχήματα διανοίας, the “ figure mentis, sententiarum,” 
etc. Indeed, no such division of σχήματα is, I believe, to be 
found in Aristotle. It seems to have been the invention of the 
later rhetoricians; and how little they were agreed, as to the ~ 
number and the species of these σχήματα, the propriety of the 
division itself, and even the precise sense of the word σχῆμα, 
may be seen in Quintilian ix. 1 —The σχήματα λέξεως of Aris- 


CHAP. xx.] POETIC. 447 


vince of the actor to know, and of him who is a 
master artist in this profession. Thus, for instance, 
[it is requisite he should know, ] what a mandate is, 
what a prayer, narration, threats, interrogation and an- 
swer are, and whatever else there may be of this kind. 
For from the knowledge or ignorance of these, the 
poetic art incurs no blame of any moment. For who 
would think that Homer errs in what he is reproved 
for by Protagoras? viz. that while he fancies he 
prays, he commands, when he says, “ The wrath, O 
goddess, sing.” For, says he, to order a thing to be 
done, or not to be done, is a mandate. Hence, this 
must be omitted as a theorem pertaining to another 
art, and not to poetry. 


CHAP. XxX. * 
The parts of Diction. 


(‘Ce all diction, however, the following are the parts; 
viz. the letter, the syllable, the conjunction, the noun, 
the verb, the article, the case, and the sentence. The 


totle in this place, are plainly such as would have been de- 
nominated by later writers, σχήματα d.avoias—figures of the 
thought or sense. Indeed we find them actually enumerated 
among the figures of that class. See Dionys. Halicarn. de 
Struct. etc. Sect. 8.—So Quintilian; “ Figuras quoque mentis, 


gue σχήματα διανοίας dicuntur, res eadem recipit omnes, in 


quas nonnulli diviserunt species dictorum, (i. 6. of jokes, bone 
mots). Nam et interrogamus, et dubitamus, et affirmamus, et 
minamur, et optamus.”’ 

I see, therefore, not the least reason why the expression 
σχῆμα λέξεως should not be rendered here exactly as in the 
other passages above referred to, “‘ figura orationis ’’—form, or 
configuration, of speech. For λέξις; it tiust be observed, is here 
used, not in the particular sense of diction, or style and man- 
ner of expression, (as it is used Rhet. iii. 8,) but in the 
general sense of λόγος, speech, as we find it used in the begin- 
ning of the next chapter. 

1 This chapter is an evident interpolation, and the student 
will gain but little benefit from its perusal, as the matter of it 
is incorrect and ill arranged, See Ritter. 


acquainte 
ed with 
the differ- 
ent appli- 
cations of 
diction. 


5. 


1. The 
parts of 
diction. 


2. Letters. 


3.. Their 
divisions, 


4. and dif- 
ferences. 


5. Sylla- 
les. 


448 ARISTOTLE’S [cuar. xx, 


letter, therefore, indeed, is an indivisible sound?; yet 
not every such sound, but that from which an intelli- 
gible sound is adapted to be produced. For there 
are indivisible vocal sounds of brutes, no one of which 
I call a,letter®} But the parts of this indivisible 
sound are,;;vowel,;semivowel, and mute. And a 
vowel, indeed; is that which has an audible sound, 
without percussion’; such asaando. But a semi- 
vowel is that which has an audible sound, with per- 
cussion; as 8 and r. And a mute is that which, 
even with the concurrence of the tongue, has of itself, 
indeed, no sound, but becomes audible in conjunction 
with things which have a certain sound; as g and 
d. But these differ bY the configurations of the 
mouth, in the parts [of the mouth®] by density and 
tenuity of aspiration, by length and shortness; and 
further still, they differ by acuteness and gravity, 
and by the medium between both these; the theory 
respecting each of which pertains to the metrical 
art. But a syllable is a sound without signification, 
composed from a mute, and an element which has 
sound [i. e. from a vowel, or semivowel]. Forgr 
without @ is a syllable®, and also with a, as gra. 

2 “Vocal sound,” is Taylor’s translation of φωνή. 

3 « Element of diction.” Taylor 

4 As Hermann has ventured to call προσβολὴ allisus, I 
trust I shall be excused for adopting Twining’s quaint, but 
clear translation. He observes: “ Literally, percussion, i. e. 
of the tongue against the palate, or teeth, the lips against the 
teeth, or against each other, and all the other modes of conso- 
nant articulation. See Hermes, iii. 2. p. 322, where they are 
caiiod ‘ contacts.? Dacier makes sad confusion here, both in 
his version and his notes, by confounding the names of the 
consonants, when vowels are prefixed, or put after them, to 
make them separately pronouncible, (Te, eF, eL, etc.,) with 
their powers in composition—as elements of words. Thus, it 
is strictly true, that S and R have a sound, without the assist- 
ance of a vowel, merely by their mode of articulation. But D, 
or G, have no sound at all by themselves. The semivowels 
arel,m,n,r,s. (Dion. Halicarn. De Struct. Orat. sect. 14.)” 

δ. i. e. the different organs of speech, from which letters are 
denominated nasal, dental, labial, etc. Taylor. 

6 Gr is an instance of a syllable composed of a mute and ἃ 
semivowel; and g ra of a syllable composed of a mute, 8 
vowel, and a semivowel. Taylor. © But see Ritter 


CHAP. XX. ] POETIC. 419 


The study, however, of the differences of these, per- 

tains also to the metrical art. But ἃ conjunction is 6. Con- 
a sound void of signification, which neither impedes J¥"°4- 
nor produces one significant sound adapted to be 
composed from many sounds, and which may be 
_placed cither at the beginning or the end of the pe- 

riod, unless something requires that it should be 

placed by itself at the beginning; such as μὲν, ἤτοι, 

δή. Or it is a sound without signification, composed 

from more sounds than one, but naturally adapted to 
produce one significant sound. An article is a sound 7. Article | 
without signification, which shows the beginning, or ὃς... 
end, or distinction of a word’; as ro φημί, and τὸ 

περί, and others of the like kind. Or it is a sound 
without signification, which neither impedes nor pro- 

duces one significant sound naturally adapted to be 
_composed from many sounds, both in the extremes and 

in the middle. But a noun is a composite sound, 8. Noun. 
significant without time, of which no part is of itself 
significant. For in double nouns, we do not use the 

parts as of themselves significant. Thus, in the word 
Theodorus, [though Theos signifies God and doron a 

gift, | yet doron signifies nothing. A verb is a com- 9. Verb. 
posite sound, significant with time, of which no part 

is of itself significant, in the same manner also as in 

nouns. For man or white does not signify time; but 

he walks, or he did walk, signify, the former indeed ν 
the present, and the latter the past time. But case 1(. Case 
pertains to noun or verb. And one case, indeed, 
fin nouns | signifies that something is said of this 
thing, or is attributed ¢o* this thing, and the like; 


7 This description is most obscure ; but the sense seems to 
be, that an article is a sound which of itself does not, signify 
any thing definite, but merely serves to indicate a significant 
sound, before or after which it is placed, or which it distin- 
guishes from other words. Taylor. Ritter denies that there 
is any sense at all, an opinion in which the reader will pro- 
bably acquiesce. 

8 These only, in modern grammar, are called cases: in Aris- 
sotle, number, whether in noun or verb, and the tenses, and 
modes, (or moods,) of verbs, are comprehended under that 
term; because cases (3wrwoers—cases) are endings, termina- 
tions, inflections, etc., and, in the learned languages, ail the 


12. Its 
unity. 


150 ARISTOTLE’S [cuar. xxi. 


but another is that which pertains to one thing or 
many things; as men, or man. And another case 
pertains to acting*®, such as what relates to interro- 
gation or demand. For did he walk? Or walkisa 
case of ‘a verb according to these species. And a 
sentence is a composite significant sound, of which 
certain parts of themselves signify something; for 
not every sentence is composed from nouns and 
verbs, (since the definition of man” is a sentence 
without a verb,) but there may be a sentence without 
verbs. A sentence, however, will always have some 
part significant; as in the sentence Cleon walks, the 
word Cleon is significant. But a sentence is one in 
a twofold respect; for it is either that which signi- 
fies one thing, or that which becomes one from many 
by conjunction". Thus the Iliad, indeed, is one by 
conjunction; but the definition of. man is one, be- 
cause it signifies one thing. | 


CHAP. XXI. 


ἊΣ On Nouns and Metaphors, 


1. The 
species of 
‘nouns. 


ὙΥΊΤΗ respect to the species of a noun, one is simple; 
and I call the simple noun that which is not com- 


above-mentioned differences of meaning are expressed by dif- 
ferent terminations. ‘The French use chute, the literal trans- 
lation of casus, in the sense of termination—* La chute d’une 
periode,” etc. And fall is used, in our poetical language, for 
a close, or cadence, in music. 


That strain again—it had a dying FALL. 
Merch. of Venice. 


And so Milton in Comus, v. 25]. Twining. 

9 These modes are the same which he calls figures of speech, 
Sect. 23. Twining. 

10 The definition alluded to appears to be this, literally ren- 
dered: ‘A terrestrial animal with two feet”? (ζῷον πεζὸν, 
δίπουν). Twining. 

11 Compare wept ‘Epunv. cap. v. p. 38.—Analyt. Post. lib. ii. 
cap. 10. p. 469, E.—Metaphys. vil. 4. p. 910, D. (where 
uses τῷ συνέχει, as equivalent to συνδέσμῳ,) and viii. 


CHAP. XXiI.' POETIC. 45! 


posed from significan 


5: but another is two- 


fold. And this either consists of that which is sig- © 


nificant, and that which is without signification, or 
of both parts significant. A noun also may be triple 
and quadruple, as is the case with many of the nouns 
of the Megaliote'; such as Hermocazcoxanthus?. 
But every noun is either proper or foreign®, or me- 
taphorical, [or ornamental‘,] or invented, or ex- 
tended, or contracted, or altered. But I call thata 
proper name, which is used by every one; and that 
a foreign® name which is used by other nations. 
Hence it is evident that the same noun may be both 
foreign and proper, though not to the same people. 
For the word Xiyvvorv® is proper to the Cyprians, 


931, C. Twining. Ritter remarks, that the compiler of this 
chapter did not understand the passages he copied. 

ΕἼ have read, in some ludicrous book, of a country that was 
“lost by the ignorance of geographers.’’ This seems to have 
been the case of these Megaliote, if such a people ever ex- 
isted. They are no where recorded.—Dacier reads, μεγαρι- 
ζόντων----“ ceux qui disent de grandes choses:’’ and cites Hesy- 
chius—Meyapifovres—peyaha λέγοντες. But this is too distant 
from the present reading, Μεγαλιωτῶν. Winstanley’s conjec- 
ture—peyarsiwv, ws, is somewhat nearer, and, in other re- 
spects, preferable: but it is, I think, a strong presumption 
against its truth, that Aristotle constantly uses οἷον, when he 
gives an instance; never, as far as I recollect, ws. 

I have sometimes thought it not very improbable, that the 
passage might originally have stood thus: τῶν péyadA Διω- 
ΚΟΝτων: i. 6. of those who affect, aim at, are fond of, 
grandeur and pomp of expression; who love hard words, as 
we say. Nothing more comncon than this sense of d:wxew. 
Twining. 

. Donaldson, Theatre of the Greeks, p. 27, pt. 2, adopts Tyr- 
whitt’s conjecture, μεγαλείων ὡς, as being confirmed by 
Xenoph. Mem. II. 1, § 34, and renders it, “‘ the bombastic 
expressions.’ Ritter prefers πολλαπλομεγάλωπος, as an ex- 
ample of this kind of word, but Donaldson seems right. 

2 This is a noun composed from the names of the three 
rivers Hermus, Caicus, and Xanthus. 

3 Cf. Rhet. iii. 1 and 2. 

¢ Ritter condemns the addition of κόσμος, as it has no de- 
finition. > 

5 Ritter remarks that γλώτται are both provincialisms and 
ebsotete words. 

6 j. 6. @ spear. 


2. Their 
divisions 


3. Pro- 
per and 
foreign. 


| 
| 


| 


4. Neta- 
phor. 


5. Differ- 
ent meta- 
phors ex- 


452 ARISTOTLE’S “CHAP, XXI. 


but foreign to us. ‘But a metaphor’ is the transposi- 


tion of a noun from its _proper signification, either 


from the génus to the species, or from the species te 


emplified. 


the genus; or from species to species, οἵ according 


to the analagous. I call, however, a transposition 
from genus to species, such as, 
ov 

Secure in yonder port my vessel ‘stands’. f 
For to be moored is a species of standing. But a 
transposition from species to genus is such as, 

Ten thousand valiant deeds 

Ulysses has achieved®. 
For ten thousand is a great number, and is now used 
instead of many.) And a transposition from species 
to species is such as, aa 

The brazen falchion/drew away)his life. 
And, ΤΡ 

Cut by the ruthless sword 9, 


For here to draw away, is used instead of to cut ; 
and ¢o cut is used instead of to draw away; sitice 
both imply the taking something away. But I call 
it analogous, when the relation of the second term to 
the first is similar to that of the fourth to the third ; 


\ for then the fourth is used instead of the second, or the 
“second instead of the fourth. [And sometimes the 


proper term is added to the relative terms'!.] I say, 


for instance, a cup has a similar relation to Bacchus 
that a shield has to Mars. Hence, a shield may be 


called the cup of Mars, and a cup the shield of Bac- 


chus. Again, evening has the same relation to day 
that old age has to life. One may therefore say that 


7 Aristotle understands metaphor in a more extended sense 
than we do, for we only consider the third and fourth of the 
kinds enumerated by him, as metaphors. Our usurpation of 
the word was in vogue in Cicero’s time. See de Orat. III. 
38, sqq- Ritter. 

® Odyss. A. 185. 9 Il. B. 272. 

10 This, and the next species only, answer to what we call 
metaphor—the metaphor founded on resemblance. The two 
first species belong to the trope denominated, since Aristotle’s 
time, Synecdoche. Twining. 

11 This is perfectly out of place and useless. See Ritter. 


(iy ins ν 


CHAP. χχι. POETIC. . 453 


evening is the old age of day, and that old age is the 

evening of life ; or as Empedocles calls it, ‘‘ The set- 

ting of life’.” In some instances, also, wheré tlere 7. Means 
is no analogous name, this method may be no less Στὰ 
similarly employed. Thus, to scatter grain is to sow; them. 
but there is no name for the scattering of light from 

the sun, and yet this has a similar relation to the sun 


that sowing has to grain. Hence, it is said, 
Sowing his god-created flame. 


This mode of metaphor may likewise be used differ-. 8, 

ently, when, calling a thing by a foreign name, some- 

thing belonging to it is denied of it; as if one should 

“call a shield not the cup of Mars, but the wineless 

cup. But an invented noun is that, in short, which, 9. Inven- 
not being adopted by others, is introduced by the poet tedwords. 
himself. Forit appears that there are certain nouns 

of this kind ; as substituting ἔρνυγες instead of κέρατα 

for horns’, and calling a priest dpnrho™, instead of 

ἱερεύς. And a word is extended or contracted, partly 10. Ex- 
by using a vowel longer than the proper one, or by ag 
inserting a syliable; and partly by taking something tracted. 
away from it. An extended noun, indeed, is such as 

πόληος for πόλεως, and πηληϊάδεω for πηλείδου ; but 

the contracted, such as κρῖ, and δῶ ὃ; and, 


μία γίνεται ἀμφοτέρων of", 


———The sight of both is one. 


And a word is changed when the poet leaves part of 11. 
it, and invents part; as, Changed, 


12 “Thy sun is set, thy spring is gone.” 
Gray, Ode on Spring. 
“Yet hath my night of life some memory.” 
Shakspeare, Com. of Errors—last scene. Twinmg 


13 i. e. branches ; which we also use for the horns of a stag. 
But Aristotle means a new word, not a new application merely 
of a word already in use. Twining. 

14 A supplicator ; literally, a prayer, taken in the sense of one 
who prays; as seer is used for prophet. Twining. 

15 Koi is used Il. E. 196. Aw, 1]. A. 425. Twining. 

16 Part of a verse of Empedocles, quoted by Strabo, p. 364, 
ed, Cantab, 


12. On 
genders. 


1. Two 
requisites 
of diction, 
clearness, 
and free- 
dom from 
meanness, 
How pro- 
duced. 


2. Re- 
sults and 
effects of 
the differ- 
ent kinds 
of words. 


454 ARISTOTLE’S [CHAP XXIk 


Δεξιτερὸν κατὰ μαζόν. 

In the right breast "7, 
Instead of δεξιόν. ["*Further still, of nouns some 
are masculine, others feminine, and others between, 
[or neuter]. And the masculine, indeed, are such as 
end in ν, and p, and o, and such as are composed from 
o; but these are two, Ψ and é. The feminine nouns 
are such as are composed from vowels, and always 
end in long vowels; as, for instance, in ἡ and ὠ, or 
in a of the doubtful. Hence it happens that the 
number of terminations for masculine and feminine 
are equal; for the terminations of ~ and é are the 
same. No noun, however, ends in a mute, or in a 
short vowel; and only three nouns end in 4, viz. 
μέλι, κόμμι, and πέπερι. But five end in v; viz. πῶῦ, 
νᾶπυ, γόνυ, δόρυ, and ἄστυ. And the neuter nouns 
end in these, and in ν and ec. | 


A CHAP. XXII. 
The subject of Diction continued, 


THE virtue of diction, however, consists in being per- 
spicuous, and not mean’. ‘The diction, therefore, is 
most perspicuous, which is composed from proper 
nouns, but then it will be mean. But an example of 
this is the poetry of Cleophon and Sthenelus. It 
will, however, be elevated, and remote from the vul- 

ar idiom, by employing unusual words. But I call 
unusual words, such words as are foreign, the meta- 
phorical, the extended, and every word except the 
proper [name of a thing]. If, however, [a poet] 
wholly employ such words as these, it will be either 
an enigma, or a barbarism> If, therefore, it were 


17 Tl. E. 393. 

18 This following passage is false in its statements, and totallw 
foreign to Aristotle’s design. Ritter, therefore, has rightly 
condemned it. 

1 Of. Rhet, iiie 1, extr. and 2. init. | 


Ch. >. XXII.} POETIC. 435 


composed from metaphors, it would be an enigma; 
but if from foreign words, a barbarism. For the 
essence of an enigma is this, to unite things impos- 
sible, yet really true*. Now, from the arrangement of 
the words, itis not possible to effect this, but it may 
be effected by a metaphor; as “ I sawa man who had 
glued brass to a man with fire*;” and others of the 
like kind. [But from the composition of foreign 
words a barbarism is produced‘.] Hence language 
should be moderately varied with these. _ Foreign, 3. 
therefore, metaphorical, ἔτος ornamental | words, and~ 
“the other species that have been mentioned, will 
“eause the diction to be neither vulgar nor mean; but 
“proper words produce perspicuity. But the extend- 4. 
ing, contracting, and changing of names, contribute 
in no small degree to the perspicuity of the diction, 
without vulgarity. For the use of words in a way 
different from their proper and usual signification, 
causes the diction to be not vulgar; but the adoption 
of words in their accustomed meaning, renders it 
perspicuous. Hence those do not blame rightly, who 5. Objee- 
find fault with this mode of speech, and like the an- pen Po 
cient Euclid ridicule the poet, [objecting] that verse 
might easily be composed, if one permit the quantity 
of syllables to be lengthened at pleasure, making lam- 
bics even in common discourse ; as 


ἤτοι Χάριν εἶδον ΜΜαραθῶννάδε βαδίζοντα. 
And, : 


Οὐκ ἄν γ᾽ ἐράμενος τὸν ἐκείνου ἐλλέβορουϑ. 


2 τὸ λόγοντα ὑπάρχοντα ἀδύνατα συνάψαι, “ to put together 
things apparently inconsistent and impossible, and at the same 
time saying nothing but what is true.’”? Twining. 

3 Rhet. iii, 2. κόλλησιν εἶπε τὴν τῆς σικύας προσβολήν. 
The operation of cupping is meant. Compare Celsus ii. 11, 
and Almeloy. on Ceelius Aurel. Chronic, ii. 1. § 394. Rhod, 
on Scribon. Larg. Compos. xlvi. The fire alludes to the 
burnt tow (dinamentum) used to exhaust the air in the cup- 
ping glass. 

4 Apparently a gloss. See Ritter. 

δ It is of little use to attempt to settle the reading of these 
“nonsense verses.” Ritter observes that the fault probably 
lay in pronouncing ita ἐρράμενος. See his notes. 

H 


3. 


oS 


456 ARISTOTLE’S fcuar. xxn 


It is evident, therefore, that to be detected using this 
mode of diction 16 ridiculous) [But measure is com- 
mon to all the par iction ®,| For it would pro- 
duce the same effect, to make an improper and 
ridiculous use of metaphors, foreign words, and other 
forms of diction. But how great a difference is 
made by the appropriate use of them, may be seen in 
epic poetry, by putting the words in metre. And he 
who transfers proper names into foreign words, into 
metaphors, and the other forms, will see that what we 
have said is true. Thus, for instance, Atschylus 
and Euripides made the same Iambic verse; but by 
only changing one word from its proper and usual 
to a foreign signification, the one verse appears 
beautiful, and the other mean. For /Xschylus in- 
deed, in his Philoctetes, writes, 


A cancerous ulcer feeds upon my foot. 


But Euripides, instead of ἐσθέει, feeds, uses the word 
θοινᾶται, banquets on. And, 


Nov δέ μ᾽ ἐὼν ὀλίγος Te Kal οὐτιδανὸς Kal ἄκικυς, 
by inserting proper [and common ] words, it will be, 


Νῦν δέ μ᾽ ἐὼν μικρός Te kai ἀσθενικὸς Kai derdys’. 
And, 


Aidpov ἀεικέλιον καταθεὶς, ὀλίγην Te τράπεζαν. 
, ΄ iA 
Aippov μοχθηρὸν καταθεὶς, μικράν Te τράπεζαν 5. 


δ Twining renders, ‘in the employment of all the species 
of unusual words, moderation is necessary.’ But this meaning 
can scarcely be elicited from the words. See Ritter, who con- 
demns the passage as an interpolation. 

7 In this verse Polyphemus complains that he was deprived 
of sight by Ulysses, a Kittle, weak, vile man. But Homer, in- 
stead of using the word μικρὸς, little, uses ὀλίγος, which signi- 
fies few. Instead of ἀσθενικὸς, puny, he uses οὐτιδανὸς, which 
signifies a man of no account; and ἄκικυς, powerless, instead 
of ἀειδὴς, obscure. Taylor. Cf. Od. ix. 515. 

8 In this verse, which is from the 21st book of the Odyssey, 
Homer, for the purpose of signifying an ignoble seat, calls it by 
a foreign word, ἀεικέλιον, and ne’, by the usual word, μοχθηρόν ; 
and he calls the table, not μικρὰν, small, Lut ὀλίγην, few. 
Taylor. Cf. Od. xxi. 259. 


CHaP. XXII." POETIC. 457 


Or change, ἠϊόνες βοόωσιν (the shores rebellow®) to 

niovec κράζουσιν (the shores cry out). [9 Again, 8. Fur- 
Ariphrades used to ridicule the tragic poets for em- a ob- 
ploying modes of diction, which no one would use in πον ἢ 
common conyersation; such as δωμάτων ἄπο, and not 

ἀπὸ δωμάτων, i. 6. home from, and not from home ; 

σέθεν [for σοῦ]; ἐγὼ dé νιν", and ᾿Αχιλλέως πέρι, and 

not περὶ ᾿Αχιλλέως, i. 6. Achilles about, and not about 
Achilles; and other expressions of the like kind. 

For all such forms of language, because they are not 

in common use, remove vulgarity from the diction. 

But this he did not know.] It is, however, a great 9. Proper 
_thing to use each of the above-mentioned modes in a scab: 
becoming manner; and also compound ‘and foreign words. 
| words. But the greatest thing is to employ meta- °)| 
_ ‘phors well. __For this alone cannot be acquired from 
"| another, but it is an indication of an excellent genius; 
since to employ metaphors well, is to discern simili- 
tude”. But of words, the compound are chiefly 10. as 
suited to dithyrambic verse, the foreign to heroic, eer tas 
and metaphors to Iambic verse. And in heroic verse, of poetry. 
indeed, all the above-mentioned words are useful; 

but in Iambics, because they especially imitate com- 

mon discourse, those words are adapted which may 

be also used in conversation. And words of this 
description are, the proper, the metaphorical} [and 

the ornamental.| And thus much may suffice con- 

cerning tragedy, and the imitation in acting’®. 


9 Tl. P. 265.—Pope’s line is, 
‘* And distant rocks rebellow to the roar.’’ Twining. 


® Ritter objects to this clause. Twining, however, admires 
and commends its conclusion. 

1: Cf. Soph. Céd. col. 987. 

12 More clearly expressed in Rhet. iii. 11.5, τὸ ὅμοιον ans 
ἐν FOAL διέχουσι θεωρεῖν, εὐστόχον. 

13 These last words appear to me out of place. 


a. On nar- 
rative 
oetry. 
ts simi- 
larity to 
tragedy. 


8. Praise 
of Homer, 
and com- 
parison 
with 
other 
poets, 


458 ARISTOTLE’S [CHAY. ΧΙ 


CHAP. XXII. 
On the Epic Poem. 


ConcERNING the poetry, however, which is narrative 
and imitative in metre, it is evident that it ought to 
have dramatic fables, in the same manner as tragedy, 
and should be conversant with one whole and per- 
fect action, which has a beginning, middle, and end, 
in order that, like one whole animal, it may produce 
its appropriate pleasure!; and that it may not be like 
the custom of histories, in which it is not necessary 
to treat of one action, but of one time, viz. of such 
things as have happened in that time, respecting one 
or more persons, the relation of each of which things 


. to the other is just as it may happen. For as the 


sea-fight at Salamis, and the battle with the Cartha- 
ginians in Sicily, though they happened at the same 
time, tend nothing to the same end; thus also in suc- 
cessive times, one thing may sometimes be connected 
with another, from which no one end is produced, 
But nearly all poets do this. Hence, as we have . 
before observed, in this respect also Homer will ap- 
pear to be divine, when compared with other poets, 
because he did not attempt to sing of the whole of 
the Trojan war, though it had a beginning and an 
end. For if he had, it would have been very great, 
and not sufficiently conspicuous; or if it had been 
of a moderate size, it would have been intricate 
through the variety of incidents*. But now, having 
selected one part of the war, he has made use of 
many episodes; such as the catalogue of the ships, 
and other episodes, with which he has adorned his 

1 i.e. opposed (as appears from what follows) to that which 
history gives. Unity of interest is essential to the pleasure we 
expect from the epic poem; and this cannot exist, at least in 
the degree required, without unity of action. Twining. 

2 Because “ the length of the whole would” then “ not ad- 
mit of a proper magnitude in the parts;”’ and thus an epie 
poem constructed upon an historical plan, would be exactly in 


the same case with a tragedy “constructed on an epic plan.” 
'l'wining. 


CHAP. XXIV. ] POETIC, 439 


poem. Other poets, however, have composed a fable 
about one man, and one time, and one action, consist- 
ing of many parts; as the authors of the Cypriacs, 
and the Lesser Iliad*. [With respect to the Iliad 
and Odyssey, therefore, one or two tragedies only 
could be made fromeach. But-many might be made 
from the Cypriacs; and from the Lesser [liad more 
than eight; such as the Judgment of the Arms, 
Philoctetes®, Neoptolemus, Eurypylus ®, the Begging 
fof Ulysses}, the Lacene, the Destruction of Troy, 
the Return of the Greeks, Sinon, and the Troades. 


CHAP. XXIV. 
On the Species, Parts, etc. of Epic Poetry. 


AGAIN, it is requisite that the epopee should have the 
same species a8 tragedy. [For it is necessary that 
it should be either simple, or complex, or ethical, or 
pathetic'.] The parts also are the same, except the 
music and the scenery. For it requires revolutions, 
discoveries, and disasters ; and besides these, the sen- 


3 Of this kind seems the poem of Ariosto, the exordium of 
which not only expresses the miscellaneous variety of his mat- 
ter, but, also, his principle of unity. 

Le Donne, i cavalier, |’ arme, gli amori, 
Le cortesie, |’ audaci imprese, io canto, 
Che furo al remeo che passaro i Mori, etc. 


Ariosto’s expedient was, to “intertwist the several actions to- 
gether, in order to give something like the appearance of one 
action’ to the whole, as has been observed of Spenser [{ Let- 
ters on Chivalry, etc.|: he has given his poem the continuity of 
-basket-work. Or, if I may be indulged in another comparison, 
his unity is the unity produced’ between oil and vinegar by 
shaking them together, which only makes them separate by 
smaller portions. Twining. 

* So called to distinguish it from the Iviad of Homer, of which 
it seems to have been a continuation. Twining. 

5 i, 8, between Ajax and Ulysses. _Zschylus wrote a tra- 
gedy on this subject, of which the Ajax of Sophocles is tha 
sequel. Dacier. 

Of these two plays nothing is known. 
Condemned ty Ritter. 


γρο. 
.Φ 


1. The 
species 
and parts . 
of epic 
poetry. 


460 ARISTOTLE’S [CHAP. xxI¥ 


timents and the diction should be well formed; all 

which were first used by Homer, and are used by him 

2. Differ. fitly. For of his two poems, the Iliad indeed con- 
ence be- tains the simple and pathetic; but the Odyssey, the 
-hephare complex; for through the whole of it there is dis- 
Odyssey. covery? and moral. And besides these things, he 
3. Length excelled all poets in diction and sentiment. The 
Sag epopee, however, differs from tragedy in the length 
poem, § of the composition, and in the metre. But the pro- 
per boundary of its length has been before described ; 

for it should be such that the beginning and the end 

may be seen at one view. [ And this will be effected 

if the compositions are shorter than those of the an- 

cient poets, and brought to the same length with the 
multitude of tragedies that are recited at one hear- 

4. 1Ἰὸ ing%.] But it is the peculiarity of the epopee to 
power of possess abundantly the power of extending its mag- 
extension. nitude; for tragedy is not capable of imitating many 
actions that are, performed at the same time, but that 

part only whidh is represented in the scene, and 

acted by the players. But in the epopee, in conse- 

quence of its being a narration, many events may be 
introduced which have happened at the same time, 


Mecied vw. Staged, Which are properly connected with the subject, and 


from which the bulk of the poem is increased. Hence, 
this contributes to its magnificence, transports the 
hearer to different places, and adorns the poem with 
dissimilar episodes. For similitude of events rapidly 
5. Its produces satiety, and causes tragedies to fail. But 
prepet heroic metre is established by experience as adapted 
metre. to the epopee. For if any one should attempt narra- 
tive imitation in any other metre, or in many 


2 See Pope’s translation, xvi. 206, etc., where Ulysses dis- 
covers himself to Telemachus—xxi. 212, to the shepherds— 
xxiii. 21], to Penelope—xxiv. 375, to his father—ix. 17, 
to Alcinous—iv. 150, ete., Telemachus is discovered to Me- 
nelaus by his tears—y. 189, to Helen, by his resemblance to 
his father—xix. 545, Ulysses is discovered to the old nurse, 
by the scar. Twining. 

3 This is quite contrary to Aristotle’s own opinion. See Rit- 
ter. Twining’s great and tasteful learning cannot bring him 
to any satisfactory explanation of these words. 


CMAP. XXIV. | POETIC. 46} 


metres mingled together, the unfitness of it would be 
apparent. For heroic metre is of all others the most 
stable and ample. [Hence it especially receives 
foreign words and metaphors. For narrative imita- 
“tion excels all others*.] But Tambics and tetrametres 
have more motion ; the one being adapted to dancing, 
but the other to acting. It would, however, be still 6. Ob- 
more absurd, to mingle them together, as Cheremon® ctv a 
did. Hence, no one has composed a long poem in metres. 
any other measure than the heroic; but, as we have 
said, Nature herself teaches us to distinguish the 
measure best suited. Homer, indeed, deserves to be 7. Praise 
praised for many other things, and also because he is °f Homer. 
the only poet who was not ignorant what he ought 
to do himself. For it is requisite that the poet 
should speak in his own person as little as possible ; 
for so far as he does so he is not an imitator®. Other γγωων sol epee 
poets, therefore, take an active part through the ttnex ow Pf 
whole poem, and they only imitate a few things, and wa tT est 
seldom’. But Homer, after a short preface, imme- 
diately introduces a man or a woman, or something 
else* that has manners; for there is nothing in his 
poem unattended with manners. It is necessary, 8, The 
therefore, in tragedies to produce the wonderful ; but wonder- 
τ ἃ ful con- 
that which is contrary to reason (whence the wonder- τπρβοα ; 
. - . & 
ful is best produced) is best suited to the epopee, reference 
from the agent not being seen®. In the next place, ἴο tie 
. 5 5 an 
the particulars respecting the pursuit of Hector onon00, 
* Condemned by Ritter. 5 Cf, i. 9. 
6 Strictly speaking See Dissertation i. p. 27. Twining. 
7 This is remarkably the case with Lucan; of whom Hobbes 
says, that “no heroic poem raises such admiration of the poet 
as his hath done, though not so great admiration of the persons 
he introduceth.”” —{ Discourse concerning the Virtues of an 
Heroic Poem.] Twining. 
8 As gods, goddesses, allegorical beings, etc. Twining. 
9 The best comment to which I can refer the reader upon 
all this part of Aristotle, is to be found in the 10th of the Let- 
ters on Chivalry and Romance, in which the Italian poets, and 
the privileges of genuine poetry, are vindicated, with as much 
solidity as elegance, against those whom Dryden used to call 
his “ Prose Critics,’’—against that sort of criticism ‘‘ which 
looks like philosophy, and is not.’’—Dr. Hurd’s Die logues, ete, 
yol. iii. Twining 


9. False 
reasonings 
respecting 
poetry. 


10. Fur- 
ther pre- 
cepts re- 
specting 
poetic 
roba- 
ility. 


462 ARISTOTLE’S [cuar, xxiv. 


would appear ridiculous in the scene; the Greeks 
indeed standing still, and not pursuing, and Achilles 
making signs to them, by the motion of his head, not 
to engage”, But in the epopee this is concealed, 
Now, the wonderful pleases; of which this is an in- 
dication, that all men, when they wish to gratify their 
hearers, add something to what they relate. Homer 
also in the highest degree taught others how to feign 
in a proper manner. But this is aparalogisny For 
men fancy that when the consequént»follows or re- 
sults from the antecedent, the consequent may be 
converted, and that the antecedent will follow from 
the consequent. This, however, is false. [But why, 
if the antecedent be false, so long as this other be 
otherwise, should the consequent necessarily follow ? 
For through knowing the consequent to be true, our 
soul paralogizes, and concludes that the antecedent 
also is true. And there is an example of this in “the 
Washing 1", Again, one should prefer things which 
are impossible but probable, to such as are possible 
but improbable. Fables also should not be composed 
from irrational parts, [but as much as possible, in- 
deed, they should have nothing irrational in them: 
if, however, this is impossible, care should be taken 
that the irrational circumstance does not pertain to 
the fable, as in the case of Gidipus not knowing how 
Laius died'*. For it must not be brought into the 
drama, like the narration of the Pythian games in 
the Electra’, or him who, in the tragedy of the 


10 Pope’s Iliad, xxii. 267.—Perhaps the idea of stopping 
a whole army by a nod, or shake of the head, (a circumstance 
distinctly mentioned by Homer, but sunk in Mr. Pope’s ver- 
sion,) was the absurdity here principally meant. If this whole 
Homeric scene were represented on our stage, in the besf 
manner possible, there can be no doubt that the effect woul¢ 
justify Aristotle’s observation. It would certainly set the 
audience in aroar. Twining. 

‘1 | follow Ritter’s text and version, but both he and Donald- 
son regard these words as an interpolation. 

‘2 Cf. Soph. Ged. Tyr. 112, sqq. This clause is condemned 
by Ritter. 

"5 Id. Electr. 680, sqq. See my Introduction to Sophocles, 
p- Xl. 


CHAP. Xxv.] POETIC. . 463 


Mysians, comes from Tegea to Mysia without speak- 

ing.] It is ridiculous, therefore, to say, that other- 

wise the fable would be destroyed; for such fables 
should not at first be composed. But if they are 
composed, and it appears more reasonable that they 
should be, the absurdity also must be admitted; 

since the irrational circumstances in the Odyssey, 

such as Ulysses being left [on the shore of Ithaca by 

the Pheeacians], would evidently have been intoler- 

able, if they had been fabricated by a bad poet. But 

now the poet conceals the absurdity, and renders it 
pleasing by the addition of other beauties. ‘The dic- 11. The 
tion, likewise, should be laboured in the sluggish diction in 
parts of the poem, and which exhibit neither manners postive 
nor sentiment’4, For a very splendid diction con- parts. 
ceals the manners and the reasoning. 


ᾺἋ CHAP. ΧΧΥ͂. 
On removing critical Objections. 


[ Wiru respect to critical objections!, and the solu- 1. Objee 


tions of them, the number and quality of their species cia, 

'* The reader may wonder that Aristotle did not add—‘ nor 
passion.’ Butthat part of the epic and tragic poem, which 
he calls the sentiments, includes the expression of passion. 
Twining. 

15 * His diction [ Thomson’s] is in the highest degree florid 
and luxuriant; such as may be said to be to his images and 
thoughts both their lustre and their shade; such as invests them 
with splendour, through which perhaps they are not always 
easily discerned.””—Dr. Johnson’s Life of Thomson. Twining. 

1 The original is, Problems. This appears to have been a 
common title of critical works in Aristotle’s time. Objections, 
censures, and [86 most unreasonable cavils, were conveyed in 
the civil form of problems and questions. Thus. many criti- 
cisms on Homer were published under the title :f Homerie 
Problems. 

The scope of this part of Aristotle’s work is of more import- 
ance to his subject than, at first view, it may appear to be, 
In teaching how to answer criticisms, it, in fact, teaches, (as 
far, I mean, as it goes,) what the poet should do to avoid 


and their 
solutions. 


3. Error 


twofold, 


essential 
and acci- 


dental. 


4. 


464 ARISTOTLE’S [cHAP. xx¥ 


will become apparent from surveying them as follows, 
Since the poet is an imitator, in the same manner as 
a painter, or any other person who makes likenesses, 
it is necessary that he should always imitate one of 
the three [ objects of imitation]. For he must either 
imitate things such as they were or are, or such as 


they are said and appear to be?, or such as they 
ought to be. But these are enunciated either by 


[common] diction, or by foreign words and meta- 
phors. For there are many modifications? of diction ; 
and we concede these to the poets. Besides this, 
there is not the same rectitude of politics and poetry, 
nor of any other art and poetry. But of poetry itself, 
the error is twofold; the one essential, the other 
accidental. For the error is essential, when it at- 
tempts to imitate that which is beyond its power; 
but [when it attempts to imitate improperly, as‘] if, 
for instance, a horse should be described as moving 
both its right legs together, or an error in any of the 


giving occasion to them. It seems, indeed, intended as an 
apology for Poetry, and a vindication of its privileges upon true 
poetical principles, at a time when the art and its professors 
were unfairly attacked on all sides, by the cavils of prosaic 
philosophers and sophists, such as Ariphrades, Protagoras, 
Euclid, etc., and by the puritanical objections of Piato and his 
followers. Twining. 

If Ritter’s strictures be true, our acquaintance with Aristotle’s 
Poetics is now at anend. Ina learned annotation (pp. 263—6) 
he seems to have completely proved the spurious character ot 
both this and the following chapter. 

3 This includes all that is called faery, machinery, ghosts, 
witches, enchantments, etc.— things, according to Hobbes, 
** beyond the actual bounds, and only within the ‘ conceived 
possibility of nature.’’ [See the Letters on Chivalry, as above. } 
Such a being as Caliban, for example, is tmpossible. Yet 
Shakspeare has mad¢ the character appear probable ; not, cer- 
tainly, to reason, but to imagination; that is, we make no diffi- 
culty about the possibility of it, in reading. Is not the Lovelace 
of Richardson, in this view, more out of nature, more impro- 
bable, than the Caliban of Shakspeare? The latter is, at least, 
consistent. I can zmagine such a monster as Caliban: I never 
could imagine such a man as Lovelace. Twining. 

3 πάθη, inflections, dialectic variations, etc. 

4 These words, τὸ προελέσθαι μὴ ὀρθῶς, are totally incon- 
siatent with the meaning. See Ritter. 


CHAP. Xxv. ] POETIC. 465 


arts be committed in poetry, as in medicine, or any 
other art, when it fabricates things that are impos- 
sible, these, therefore, whatever they may be, are not 
the essential errors of poetry. Hence, one must re- 
fute the objections of critics from surveying these 
particulars. For in the first place, indeed, the poet 
errs, if what he fabricates is impossible according to 
the art itself; but it will be right if the end of po- 
etry is obtained by it. For we have before shown 
what the end is, viz. if the poet thus renders what 
he fabricates, or any other part of the poem, more 
capable of producing a more striking effect®. An 
example of this is the pursuit of Hector. If, how- 
ever, this end can be more or less attained, and that 
according to the art pertaining to these things, then 
the fault will not be excusable. For it is requisite 
if possible to be entirely without error. Further 
still, it should be considered whether the error ranks 
among things essential to the poetic art, or foreign 
and incidental. For it is a less fault not to know 
that a hind has no horns, than to depict a bad copy 
of one. Besides this, also, if the poet is blamed for 
not imitating things as they truly are, the reply is, 
but he imitates them as they should be. ‘Thus So- 
phocles said, that he described men such as they 
should be, but Euripides such as they are. If, how- 
ever, it should be objected, that the poet represents 
things in neither of these ways, he may say that he 
represents them as men say they are; as, for in- 
stance, in things pertaining to the gods. For per- 
haps it is neither better thus to speak, nor true, but 
it is just as it may happen; as Xenophanes observes, 
“‘ At any rate they tell us such things®.” Perhaps, 
however, it may be said, that it is not better, indeed, 
thus to speak, but that the thing was so; as in the 
passage concerning the arms [of the sleeping sol- 
diers of Diomed ]: 


5 A false definition. See Ritter. 
6 « Tyrwhitt’s emendation, ἀλλ᾽ οὖν φασὶν τάδε, seems to be 
the best of those which have been proposed.” Donaldsen. 


5. 
Whence 
objections 
‘may be 
removed 


9. Dic- 
tion. 


466 ARISTOTLE’S [ CHAP. Xxw 


ἔγχεα δέ σφιν ὄρθ᾽ ἐπὶ σαυρωτῆρος, 
fixed upright in the earth 
Their spears stood by 7 


For such was the custom at that time, as it is now 


- with the Illyrians. With respect, however, to the 


inquiry whether a thing is said or done by any one 
well or ill, we must not only regard the thing itself 
which is done or said, whether it is good or bad, but 
we must also [consider] the person by whom it is done 
or said, viz. concerning whom, or when, or to whom, or 
on what account, he speaks or acts; as whether it is 
for the sake of bringing to pass a greater good, or in 
order to avoid a greater evil. But it is requisite to 
remove some objections by looking to the diction ; 
as, for instance, to foreign words: 
On mules th’ infection first began. 

For perhaps he does not use οὐρῆας to signify mules, 
but guards®. And in what he says of Dolon, 

— εἶδος κὲν ἔην κακός 

—— of form unhappy 
It may be said that εἶδος κακὸς does not signify a 
body without symmetry, but a deformed face. For 


the Cretans call a man with a good face εὐειδής. 
And, 


Ζωρότερον δὲ Kipare —————_” 
For ζωρότερον may not mean undiluted wine, as for 


11), X. 152. See Ritter. 

81), A. 50. Zoilus thought the pestilence should have be- 
gun with the men first. 

® Tl. K. 316. The objection of the critics is supposed, to 
have been, that an i//-made man could not be a good racer. 
See Pope’s note. Twining. 

10 Tliad ix. 267, 8.—Pope follows the common, and probably 
the right, acceptation of the word. “‘ Mix purer wine.’’ —Aris- 
totle’s interpretation has not made its fortune with the critics. 
He seems to have produced it rather as an exemplification of 
the sort of answer which he is here considering, than as an 
opinion in which he acquiesced himself. It was, probably, an 
answer which had been given. The cavil, according to Plu- 
tarch, came from Zoilus. [See the Symposiac Prob. of Plut. 
v. 4, where this subject is discussed, and several other con- 
jectura! senses of the word Zwpérepov are proposed, ] Twining. 


CHAP. XXV-] POETIC. 467 


intemperate drinkers, but wine poured out rapidly. 
But a thing is said metaphorically, as, 10 Meta- 
The other gods and men" = 
Slept all the night. 
And at the same time he says : 
Ἤτοι ὅτ᾽ és πέδιον τὸ Τρωικὸν ἀθρήσειεν 
᾿Αυλῶν συρίγγων θ᾽ ὁμαδόν. 
- For all is said metaphorically, instead of many, all’? .... 
being a species of many. And thus οἴη δ᾽ ἄμμορος 185. 
“said of Orion metaphorically. For that which is 
most known, is called alone or sole. Objections also 11. Ac 
may be solved from accent, as Hippias the Thasian °°" 
solved the following passages : 


δίδομεν δέ οἱ [εὖχος ἀρέσθαι]. 
And, 


τὸ μὲν ob καταπύθεται ὄμβρῳ ", 
Objections likewise may be solved by punctuation; 12, Pune 
as in the following instance from Empedocles, tuation. 


Aira δὲ θνήτ' ἐφύοντο, τὰ πρὶν μάθον ἀθάνατ᾽ εἶναι, 
Ζωρά τε τὰ πρὶν κέκριτο."" 


11 Beginning of I]. iii— What it was that wanted defence in 
this passage, and that was to be taken metaphorically, we are 
not told. That it was the representation of the gods as sleep- 
ing, is the most probable conjecture. This is somewhat soft- 
ened by Mr. Pope’s “ slumbered.”” Homer says—“ sLert ali 
the night,”’—evdov παννυχιοι. Twining. 

12 πάντες 15 a far-fetched notion from παννύχιοι. The author 
has blundered between Il. B. 1., and Il. I. 1, and 11—13. 
See Ritter. 

13 []. xxi. 297, has δίδομεν δέ τοι εὖχος ἀρέσθαι, but the line, 
as here quoted, is not found in Homer. See Ritter. Taylor ob- 
serves: ‘‘ It alludes to the order given by Jupiter to the dream in 
Il. ii. to deceive Agamemnon. Here, if δίδομεν is read with 
an accent in the antepenult, it will signify damus, and will im- 
ply that Jupiter promises Agamemnon glory from the battle; 
but if it is read with an accent in the penult, d:dduev, so as to 
be the infinitive Ionic, it will signify dare. It will therefore 
imply that Jupiter orders the dream to give the hope of victory 
to Agamemnon.”’ 

14 If this is read with the circumflex on the οὗ, it will signify 
that the oak became putrid by the rain, which is absurd; but 
if it is read with an acute accent and spiritus lenis οὔ, it will 
signify mot, and will imply, that the oak was not rotted by the 
rain. Taylor. 

16 The sense here depends on the punctuation. For if the 


13. Ambi- 
guty. 


14. Cus- 
tom of 
diction. 


15. Con- 


traries. 


468 ARISTOTLE’S [CHAP. XXV 


Or by ambiguous expressions, as {in Iliad, x.] 


παρῴχηκεν δὲ πλέων νυξ'", 


Night of two parts the greater share had waned, 
But of her empire still a third remain’d. 
For the word πλέων is ambiguous. Or objections 
may be answered from the custom of diction; as 
when wine is called κεκραμένον, mixed; whence has 
been said, 
Greaves of new-wrought tin. 


And those that work on iron are called braziers ', 
Whence Ganymede is said 


To pour out wine for Jove 19: Il. 20, 


though the gods do not drink wine. But this may 
also be metaphorically said. It is necessary, how- 
ever, when a word appears to signify something of a 
contrary nature, to consider how many significations 
it may have in the passage before us; as, 


a 


τῇ ῥ' ἔσχετο χάλκεον Ey Xos— 
** There stuck the lance”? :᾽ sag" 
For here the word stuck implies that the lance was 


impeded. Of how many different senses a word may 
admit, one may learn thus, by a contrary manner 


comma is put after {wed in the second line, instead of πρὸν, the 
sense will be, ‘“‘ Immediately those things were made mortal 
which before had learnt to be immortal, and pure which be- 
fore were mixed.”” But if the comma is put after πρὶν instead 
of ζωρὰ, the sense will be, “‘ that those things which before were 
pure, were mixed.’’ Taylor. But see Ritter’s learned note. 
16 But the ambiguity is occasioned by the word πλέων, which 
may either signify more than, or the greater part of. Taylor. 
Il. K. 252. 
ἔΑστρα δὲ δὴ προβέβηκε, παρῴχηκεν δὲ πλέων VUE, 
τῶν δύο μοιράων. 
7 “ Ea potio que ex aqua et vino commixta est tamen vinum 
nominatur. Nove dictum φασιν εἶναι pro λέγουσιν." Ritter. 
18 « Schol. in Hom. 1]. T. 283. παλαιὰ ἡ χρῆσις τοῦ χαλκὸν 
ὀνομάζειν τὸν σίδηρον. ἀμέλει καὶ χαλκέας τοὺς τὸν σίδηρον ἐρ- 
γαζομένους. Ritter. 
i9 T], Y. 234. 
20 ΤΊ, Y.272. This 1s consummate twaddle. See Twining 
and Ritter. 


evap. xxv.] POETIC. 469 


from what Glauco says”, [when he asserts that} 
“some men presuppose irrationally, and then reason 
from their own decision: and, having once pronounced 
their opinion, reprobate whatever is contrary to their 
[preconceived] opinion.” This was the case with re- 
spect to Icarius. For the multitude fancy that he was 
a Laconian. On this supposition, therefore, it.is ab- 
surd that Telemachus should not meet him, on his ar- 
rival at Lacedemon™. Perhaps, however, the truth 
is as the Cephalenians say, viz. that Ulysses married 
among them, and that Icadius, and not Icarius, [was 
his father-in-law ]. It is probable, therefore, that this 
objection is erroneous. In short, it is necessary to 
refer the impossible either to the poetry, or to that 
which is better, or to opinion. For, with respect to 
poetry, probable impossibility is more eligible, than 
the improbable and possible, and things should be 
_ such as Zeuxis™ painted. And also [we may refer 
the impossible] to that which is better: for it is ne- 
cessary that the pattern should transcend those things 
«which are said to be irrational. The objection, also, 
that something is irrational may be solved by saying, 
that sometimes it is not irrational; for it is probable 
that what is improbable may have happened. But 
with respect to the solution of apparent contraries, 
these are to be considered in the same manner as 


21 This is most clumsily and indistinctly expressed. 

22 See Ritter. 

23 «Tn ancient days, while Greece was flourishing in liberty 
and arts, a celebrated painter, [Zeuwwis,| having drawn many 
excellent pictures for a certain free state, and been generously 
rewarded for his labours, at last made an offer to paint them a 
Helen, as a model and exemplar of the most exquisite beauty. 
The proposal was readily accepted, when the artist informed 
them, that in order to draw one Fair, it was necessary he 
should contemplate many. He demanded, therefore, a sight of 
all their finest women. The state, to assist the work, assented 
to his request. They were exhibited before him; he selectea 
the most beautiful; and from these formed his Helen, more 
beautiful than them all.’’—Harris’s Three Treatises, p. 216. 
T wining. 

24 Improved nature, ideal beauty, etc., which, elsewhere, is 
expressed by what should be. Twining. Ritter rightly sup- 


plies τὸ ἐδύνατον δεῖ ἀνάγειν. 


ἀπο 


7. 


470 ARISTOTLE’S foHaP. XXVE 


elenchi* in arguments, if the same thing [is affirmed 
οἱ denied], and with respect to the same thing, and 
after the same manner, and whether it is the same — 
person [who affirms and denies], and also with what 
reference he speaks, and what a wise man would un- 
19. derstand from his words*. The reprehension [of 
bi τιϑας poets] on the score of improbability” and vicious 
sion is | Manners will be right, through which it is shown, 
correct. that they have without any necessity devised some- 
thing irrational. Thus irrationality is used [with- 
out any necessity | by Euripides in his Ageus, and 
viciousness, in the character of Menelaus, in his 
20.Sum- Orestes. The reprehensions, therefore, may be de- 
mary: χγρᾷ from five species. For they are either made 
because impossibilities are introduced, or absurdities, 
or things of evil tendency, or contraries, or as errors 
committed against the rectitude of art. But the so- 
lutions may be surveyed from the above-mentio 
number ; for they are twelve.?5] 


- CHAP. XXVI. 


1. Re- One may, however, question whether epic or tragic 


ee ae imitation is the more excellent. For if that imita- 


tragicand tion is the better which is less troublesome to the 
epic Imi- gnectator, and such an imitation pertains to better 
tation, . ar . . . 
spectators, that which imitates every thing is evi- 
dently attended with molestation. For, as if the 
spectators will not perceive what is acted without 
the addition of much movement!, they make great 


25 i. e. confutations. 

361 have followed Ritter, who has done much for this awk- 
ward heap of tautologies. 

27 Surely the words καὶ ἀλογία καὶ μοχθηρία are corrupt or 
interpolated. 

28 The reader who regards his own ease, will, I believe, do 
well to take this for granted. If, however, he has any desire 
to try the experiment, he may read my NoTE on this passage; 
and I wish it may answer to him. Twining. 

1 Though Aristotle instances in gesture only, the objection 


CHAP. XXVI.- POETIC. | 47] 


gesticulations ; just as bad players on the flute turn 
themselves round, when it is requisite to imitate the 
action of the discus; or when they sing of Scylla, draw 
to themselves’ the coryphzus, or leader of the band. 
Such, then, is tragedy, as the modern actors are in 
the estimation of their predecessors*. Hence, Mynis- 
cus called Callipides an ape, in consequence of carry- 
ing his imitation to a great excess. And there was 
also a similar opinion respecting Pindar [the player ]. 
But as these latter actors are to the former, so is the 
whole art of tragedy to the epopee. They say, there- 
fore, that the epopee is calculated for hearers of the 
vetter sort, 0: which account it does not require 
scenery ; but that tragedy is calculated for the vul- 
gar. Hence, tragic imitation, which is troublesome 
to the spectator, will evidently be inferior to epic 
imitation. 

In the first place, however, this accusation does 
not pertain to the poet, but the actor; since it is 
possible in reciting epic poetry to overdo action, as 
Sosistratus did, and singing likewise, as Mnastheus 
of Opus did. In the next place, neither is all motion 
to be despised, since neither is every kind of dancing, 


no doubt, extended to the whole imitative representation of the 
theatre, including the stage and scenery, by which place is 
imitated, and the dresses, which are necessary to complete the 
imitation of the persons. Twining. 

2 “Ἕλκοντες τὸν Κορυφαῖον--- ΤῸ imitate Scylla,—“ naves in 
saxa trahentem,’’ as Virgil has expressed it. But it is not easy 
to see how the performer, at least while he was playing, could 
well spare a hand for this operation.—This was even worse 
than what we call humouring a catch; when, for instance, a 
singer who is performing Purcell’s “ Fie, nay prithee, John,” 
—thinks it necessary to collar his neighbour. Twining. 

Sheridan has burlesqued this habit of “suiting the action” 
with admirable humour in “ the Critic.” Sir Christopher Hat- 
ton turning out his toes, Lord Burleigh shaking his head, and 
Tilburnia going mad in white satin, are among the best of his 
innumerable facetie on tke subject. Compare also “the Re- 
hearsal,”” Act 1, where Bayes instructs the Thunder and Light- 
ning how to express their noisy and rapid powers by suitable 
action. 

3 The “decline of the drama,” then, was a subject of com- 
piaint at Athens, as well as ἜΝ 

I 


2. Com- 
plaints re- 
specting 
actors. 


3. But 
the whole 
question 
rather 
pertains 
to the 
actor than 
the poet. 


472 ARISTOTLE’S [cHap. XXv1. 


but only that which is bad; and hence Callipedes 
was blamed, as others now are for imitating light 
women‘, Further still, tragedy, in the same manner 
as the epopee, may fulfil its purpose without gesture ; 
for by reading, it is manifest what kind of thing it is, 
If, therefore, it is in other respects better, it is ποῦ ne- 
cessary that it should be accompanied [by motion and 
gesture]. In the next place, tragedy has every thing 
which the epopee possesses. For it may use metre, 
and it has also music and scenery, as no small parts, 
through which the pleasure it produces is most ap- 
parent. To which may be added, that it possesses 
perspicuity, both when it is read, and when it is 


- acted. The end, too, of its imitation is confined in 


less extended limits. For being crowded into a nar- 
rower compass, it becomes more pleasing than if it 
were diffused through a long period of time. Thus, 
for instance, if one were to put the Cidipus of 
Sophocles into as many verses as the Iliad, [it would 


6. be less pleasing]. Again, the imitation of the epopee 


has less unity [than tragic imitation]; of which this 
is an indication, that from any kind of [epic] imita- 
tion many tragedies may be produced. Hence, if he 
who writes an epic poem should choose a fable per- 
fectly one, the poem would necessarily either appear 
short, as if curtailed, or if it should be accompanied 
with length of metre, it would seem to be languid’. 
But if he should compose one fable from many fables, 
I mean, if the poem should consist of many aetions, 
it would not possess unity. ‘Thus, the Iliad and 
Odyssey contain many such parts, which of them- 
selves possess magnitude, though these poems are 
composed, as much as possible, in the most excellent 


4 Taylor has gone fearfully astray in his version, “ for πού 
imitating free women’’! The negative particle belongs to the 
adjective. Twining observes: ‘‘as no actresses were admitted 
on the Greek stage, their capital actors must frequently have 
appeared in female parts, such as Electra, Iphigenia, Medea, 
etc. This is sufficiently proved by many passages of ancient 
authors; and among others, by a remarkable story of Polus, 
an eminent Greek Tragic actor, told by Aulus Gellius.” 

5 ὑδαρῇ, milk-and-waterish. 


CHAP. XXVI-] POETIC. 473 


manner, and are most eminently the imitation of one 
action. If, therefore, tragedy excels in all these 7. 
particulars, and besides this, in the work of art, (for 
neither tragic nor epic imitation ought to produce a 
casual pleasure, but that which has been stated, ) it 
is evident that it will be more excellent than the 
epopee, in consequence of attaining its end ina 
greater degree. And thus much concerning tragedy, 8. 
and the epopee, as to themselves, their species, and 
their parts, their number, and their difference, what 
the causes are of their being good or bad, and also 
concerning the objections which may be made to 
them, and the solutions of the objections. 


QUESTIONS 


ON 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC, 


CHAP, I. 


Exptalin Aristotle’s notion of imitation. 

To what different arts does it apply ? 

In what manner do these themselves differ ? 

How do you prove that Poetry is an art? 

In what does the poet agree with, in what differ from, the 
historian ? 

What does Aristotle say on the subject of metre ? 


CHAP. II. 


What are the objects of (dramatic) imitation, and what. in- 
ference respecting moral character is thence derived ? : 
What parallel does Aristotle draw between the conduct of 
painters and poets in this respect ? 
How also do tragedy a Pe ea differ ? 
I € 


-- --- Σ -.- 


474 QUES'LIONS ON 


CHAP. ὙΠ1. 


Explain the three modes of imitation. 
State the traditional derivations of tragedy and comedy. 
Are they to be regarded as genuine? | 


CHAP. IV. 


Give Aristotle’s views on the physical and sensitive causes 
of poetry. 

How did men’s dispositions actuate their choice of subject 
and metre ἢ 

Were all Homer’s poems of a grave cast ? 

What analogy do his works respectively bear to tragedy 
and comedy ? 

What changes took place in the different styles ? 

Trace the progress of tragedy from its earliest elements, 
and explain the respective improvements made by Adschylus 
and Sophocles. 

What does Aristotle say on the natural affinity of metres 
to ordinary life? 


CHAP. ν᾿, 


With what restrictions are we to regard comedy as μίμησις 
φαυλοτέρων ὃ 

Define τὸ γελοῖον. 

Are the changes through which comedy has passed as well 
known as those of tragedy, and what appears to have been the 
reason ? 

What do you read of Epicharmus, Phormis, and Crates ? 

Trace the analogy between the epopee and tragedy. 


CHAP, VI. 


Define tragedy, μελοποιΐα, λέξις, rhythm, harmony, and ὄψες. 

Enumerate the parts of tragedy that constitute its quality. 

What remark does Aristotle make respecting the manners 
of modern tragedies ? 

What parts of tragedy convey most delight ? 

What fault is usually committed ? 

Define διανοία. 


CHAP. VII. 
Define a poetic whole, and its parts, 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC. 475 


How is beauty concerned therein ? 
What limits does Aristotle set to the length of tragedy 


' CHAP. VIII. 


Define fable. 
What errors in construction do poets now commit ? 
What events are the best to select ? 


CHAP. IX, 


Should a poet narrate real events? if not, what kind are 
best suited ? 

But may not real and probable events sometimes coincide? 

Define poetical probability. 

What is the superiority of Poetry over history ? 

Define universal. 

What are the subjects most popular in tragedy ? 

Of what must the poet be a contriver? 

Which fables and simple actions are worst ? 

Define them. 

What kind of perfect actions must be imitated in tragedy ? 

Give an example of accidents seeming to proceed from 
design. 


CHAP. X. 
Define a simple action. 


CHAP. XI. 
Define revolution and discovery, and give some examples 


CHAP. XII. 


Give an account of pathos. 
Describe the parts of a tragedy according to its guantity. 


CHAP. XIII. 


Give some examples of the best modes of exciting pity 
and terror, and compare their respective merits. 

What character does Aristotle give of Euripides? 

Is this remark meant to apply to his Poetry as a whole? 

What kind of tragedy is most popular ? 

Through what reason ? 


476 QUESTIONS ON 


CHAP. XIV. 


Can terror and pity be excited by stage appointments ? 
Is it well to depend upon this means ? 

Why not? > 

What actions are truly pitiable, and why? 

Give different instances. 


CHAP. XV. 


What are the four requisites of manners ? 

Give some examples. 

How ought the λύσεις of fables to arise ὃ 

Where should art aim at matters extraneous to the drama? 
Whom should we imitate, and how? 

Does Aristotle make reference here to any other treatise ? 


CHAP. XVI. 


Give some examples of different recognitions. 
Which does Aristotle consider the best ? 


CHAP. XVII. 


How will the poet be best enabled to realize the objects ot 
actions he imitates ? 

Who are best capable of persuading, and what inference do 
you thence derive respecting the character of a poet ἢ 

What plan should be adopted in setting about a subject? 

What follows ? 

Give Aristotle’s example from Euripides. 

‘What do you mean by poetic madness? 

What is the character of episodes in epic and tragic Poetry 

respectively ? | 


CHAP. XVIII. 
Explain the δέσις and λύσις. 
Give some illustrations. 
CHAP. XIX. 


What do you read concerning λέξις and διανοία ἢ 
What knowledge properly belongs to the poet? 
How did Protagoras accuse Homer? 

Was it justly ? 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC. 477 


CHAP. XX. 
Give an account of the parts of speech. 


CHAP. XXI. 


Explain and illustrate the different kinds of words, and 
collect what has been said in the Rhetoric on the same subject. 


CHAP. XXII. 


What are the virtues of diction ? 
How are they respectively obtained ? 
_ Quote some of the illustrations. 
Does this chapter appear to be genuine? 


CHAP. XXIII. 


What are the requisites of narrative Poetry ? 

In what does its form differ from that of history ? 
Illustrate this by an example. 

What was Homer’s conduct in respect to episodes ? 
What do you know of the Cyprica, the Little Iliad ? 


CHAP. XXIV. 


Describe the forms of epopee, and their similarity to tho 
of tragedy. 
Collect all that Aristotle says of Homer’s excellence in the 
different departments of poetry. 
᾿ What do you read of the heroic metre ? 
Explain Aristotle’s views respecting possibility and pro- 
bability. 


: CHAP. XXV. 
‘Give a few specimens of the a:swering <ritical objections 


CHAP. XXVI. 
Compare the respective merits of epic and tragic Poetry. 


ANALYSIS 


OF 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC, 


WITH THE ORIGINAL DEFINITIONS.* 


1.—1. On Poetry in general, its species and parts. 

2. Now, all Poetry is an imitation, as also flute and cithern 
playing, but they differ either in the means, the objects, or th« 
manner of their imitation. 

6. Epopee imitates μόνον τοῖς λόγοις ψιλοῖς 7} τοῖς μέτροις, 
either simple or mixed. 7 

7. But custom has falsely connected the name of poet with 
the metre only, and not with their manner of imitation, as is 
shown in the case of Empedocles and Cheremon. 

10, Dithyrambs, nomes, tragedy, and comedy employ all 
the means of imitation, but some do so all together, others 
separately. 

IIl.—1 But since actions are the objects of imitation, the 
characters must be bad or good, κακίᾳ γὰρ καὶ ἀρετῇ ra ἤθη 
διαφέρουσι πάντες ; and hence men must be imitated either as 
they are, or under a more exalted or more contemptible view, 
as in the respective paintings of Dionysius, Polygnotus, and 
Pauson. The same thing holds good in other arts, and in 
Poetry, as is shown by Cleophon, Homer, and Hegemon re- 
spectively. 

4, And hence is the difference of tragedy and comedy, ἡ 
μὲν γὰρ χείρους, ἡ δὲ βελτίους μιμεῖσθαι βούλεται τῶν νῦν. 

IIi.—1. The third difference is as to the manner of imi- 
tation. For the poet may imitate the same object, and by the 
same means, but he may do so either, 1. 7” narrative, i. 6. by 


* As I follow the text of Ritter, no analysis will of course be made of 
such passages as are satisfactorily proved, by this scholar, to be spurious, 
especially when such passages are but an analysis of what has been 
already said in the Rhetoric, 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC. 479 


personating other characters, or in his own person. 11. Or he 
may represent πάντας we πράττοντας Kal ἐνεργοῦντας. 

2. Since, then, there are three differences of imitation (ἐν 
οἷς τε καὶ ἃ καὶ ὥς), Sophocles agrees with Homer, because 
both imitate τοὺς σπουδαίους, but with Aristophanes, ὅτι τοὺς 
πράττοντας. [Hence the Dorians lay an etymological claim to 
the invention of the Drama and Comedy, δράματα, ὅτι μιμοῦν- 
ται δρῶντας, κωμφδοὶ, τῇ κατὰ κώμας πλάνῃ ἀτιμαζόμενοι ἐκ τοῦ 
ἄστεως. 

IV. Two natural causes of Poetry. 1. To imitate is the 
peculiar faculty and pleasure of man, as is evident from his 
taste for images, pictures, etc., the resemblance even of the 
worst objects causing satisfaction. And this results from the 
pleasure felt in learning and forming conclusions. 

6. 11. Moreover, rhythm and harmony are equally natural 
to us, and τὰ μέτρα μόρια τῶν ῥυθμῶν ἐστί. 

Poetry, therefore, gradually arose from the combined ex- 
ertions of οἱ μιμητικοὶ καὶ οἱ μετρικοί. 

7. And of these men οἱ σεμνότεροι τὰς καλὰς ἐμιμοῦντο πράξ- 
εις καὶ τὰς τῶν τοιούτων, οἱ δὲ εὐτελέστεροι τὰς τῶν φαύλων, the 
one writing hymns and encomia, the others satires, of which 
Homer’s Margites was the earliest known. 

8. Iambic was the fit metre for vituperation. But Homer, 
by substituting τὸ γελοῖον for ψόγος, suggested comedy, for 
his Margites has the same relation to comedy as the Iliad to 
tragedy. 10. And the heroic and vituperative poets respec- 
tively became τραγωδιδάσκαλοι and κωμωδοποιοί. 

11. Tragedy and comedy were at first ἀυτοσχεδιαστικαί, the 
one resulting ἀπὸ τῶν ἐξαρχόντων τὸν διθύραμβον, but the other 
ἀπο τῶν τὰ φαλλικά ; they then gradually increased, as im- 
provements presented themselves. 

15. A&schylus added a second actor, and gave the pre-emi- 
nence to the dialogue (see, however, the note). Sophocles 
added a third, and introduced scenic decoration. While 
tragedy remained in its simple, satyric state, the Trochaic 
metre was employed; but, on its improvement, the Iambic, 
as being the most naturally adapted to every-day discourse. 
The ‘Trochaic Poetry was σατυρικὴ καὶ ὀρχηστικωτερὴ, but τὸ 
ἰσμβεῖον μάλιστα λεκτικὸν τῶν μέτρων. 

15. Episodes were also multiplied, and the other parts im- 
proved. 


480 ANALYSIS OF 


V.—1. Κωμῳδία ἐστὶ μίμησις φαυλοτέρων, but not κατὰ πᾶ- 
σαν κακίαν, but τὸ γελοῖον, which is a part τοῦ αἰσχροῦ. For 
γελοῖον is defined ἁμάρτημά τι καὶ αἶσχος ἀνώδυνον καὶ οὐ 
φθαρτικόν. 

2. The progress of comedy, from its being for a long time 
unpopular, is unknown, but its poets are known from the time 
when it began to possess any form. 

3. The inventor of masks, dialogues, and an increased num- 
ber of actors is likewise unknown. But Epicharmus and 
Phormis of Sicily first invented comic fables, but Crates was 
the first Athenian who began ἀφέμενος τῆς ἰαμβικῆς ἰδέας 
καθόλου ποιεῖν λόγους Kal μύθους, to introduce dialogues and 
plots of a regular character. 

4, Tragic Poetry and epic agree in imitating rove σπου- 
daiove, but epic differs from it τῷ τὸ μέτρον ἁπλοῦν ἔχειν καὶ 
ἀπαγγελίαν εἶναι, and also τῷ μήκει. For epopee is ἀόριστος 
τῷ χρόνῳ, but tragedy ὑπὸ μίαν περίοδον ἡλίου. But at first 
there was no such restriction. 

5. As all the parts of epic Poetry are found in tragic, 
(but not vice versd,) a judge of the former will be a judge of 
the latter also. 

VI.—2. Tragedy is defined to be μέμησις πράξεως σπουδαίας 
καὶ τελείας, μέγεθος ἐχούσης, ἡδυσμένῳ λόγῳ, χωρὶς ἑκάστου τῶν 
εἰδῶν ἐν τοῖς μορίοις δρώντων, καὶ ov δ ἐπαγγελίας, ἀλλὰ δι 
ἐλέου καὶ φόβου περαίνουσα τὴν τῶν τοιούτων παθημάτων κάθαρ- 
σιν. And ἡδυσμένος λόγος is ὁ ἔχων ῥυθμὸν καὶ ἁρμονίαν καὶ 
μέλος. But by χωρὶς τῶν εἰδῶν, Aristotle means τὸ διὰ μέτρων 
ἔνια μόνον περαίνεσθαι, καὶ πάλιν ἕτερα διὰ μέλους. 

4. And since tragedy imitates action, the necessary parts 
of it must be ὁ τῆς ὄψεως κόσμος, μελοποιΐα, and λέξις,Ξεεὴ τῶν 
μέτρων σύνθεσις. 

5. And since action cannot exist but by ἦθος and διανοία, 
which are its two causes, καὶ κατὰ ravrac καὶ τυγχάνουσι Kai 
ἀποτυγχάνουσι πάντες" ἔστι δὲ τῆς μὲν πράξεως ὁ μῦθος μίμησις. 
6. For he defines μῦθος to be ἡ σύνθεσις τῶν πραγμάτων" and 
ἤθη, καθ᾽ ἃ ποιούς τινας εἶναι φαμὲν τοὺς πράττοντας" and διάνοια, 
ἐν ὅσοις λέγοντες ἀποδεικνύουσί τι, ἣ καὶ ἀποφαίνονται γνώμην. 

7. Hence there are six parts of tragedy, as far as its guality 
is concerned, μῦθος, ἤθη, λέξις, διανοία, ὄψις, μελοποιία" οἷς μὲν 
γὰρ μιμοῦνται, δύο μέρη ἐστὶν" ὡς δὲ μιμοῦνται, ἕν" ἃ δὲ μιμοῦν- 
ται, τρία. καὶ παρὰ ταῦτα οὐδὲν. 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC. 48} 


9. The most important is ἡ τῶν πραγμάτων σύστασις, for 
tragedy imitates actions, not men, and manners only as far as 
they are involved by actions. Hence action is the τέλος of 
tragedy. 

11, For it may exist without manners, but cannot without 
action: the later authors are imperfect in manners. 

12. Nor would a whole string of well mannered incidents 
please so well as a regular plot. 

13. And, moreover, ra μέγιστα οἷς ψυχαγωγεῖ ἣ rpayydia, 
τοῦ μύθου μέρη ἐστὶν, aire περιπετείαι καὶ ἀναγνωρίσεις. And 
men arrive at perfection in diction and manners, sooner than 
in constructing plots. [The rest of this chapter is a repeti- 
tion, and is inconsistent with Aristotle’s own ideas in other 
places. See Ritter. ] 

Vil.—2. From the previous definition, κεῖται ἡμῖν τὴν 
τραγῳδίαν τελείας καὶ ὅλης πράξεως εἶναι μίμησιν ἐχούσης τι 
μέγεθος" for there may be ὅλον μηδὲν ἔχον μέγεθος. And ὅλον 
15 τὸ ἔχον ἀρχὴν καὶ μέσον καὶ τελευτήν, 8. but ἀρχὴ, ὃ αὐτὸ 
μὲν ἐξ : ἀνάγκης μὴ μετ᾽ ἄλλο ἐστί" μετ᾽ ἐκεῖνο δ᾽ ἕ ἕτερον πέφυκεν 
εἶναι ἢ “γίνεσθαι, and τελευτὴ, τοὐναντίον, ὃ αὐτὸ μετ᾽ ἄλλο πέ- 
τ φυκεν εἶναι, i ἐξ ἀνάγκης, ἢ ὡς ἐπιτοπολύ" μετὰ δὲ Τοῦτο ἄλλο 
οὐδέν, and μέσον, καὶ αὐτὸ μετ᾽ ἄλλο, καὶ per’ ἐκεῖνο ἕτερον. To 
these definitions the poet must conform. 

4. Again, whatever is beautiful, must not only have a pro- 
per arrangement of its parts, but must be of a proper magni-. 
tude, neither too large for its parts to be comprehended, nor 
too small. 

- 7. The proper μέγεθος of tragedy i is ἐν ὅσῳ κατὰ τὸ εἰκὸς, a 
τὸ ἀναγκαῖον ἐφεξῆς γιγνομένων, συμβαίνει εἰς εὐτυχίαν ἐκ 
δυστυχίας, ἢ ἢ ἐξ εὐτυχίας εἰς δυστυχίαν μεταβάλλειν. 

VIII.—1. Μῦθος is one, not ἐὰν περὶ ἕνα ἦ, as the authors 
of Heracleids, etc. have wrongly supposed, but because it is 
the imitation of one entire action, complete in all its parts. 

IX.—1. Moreover it is not the poet’s province to relate ra 
γινόμενα, but οἷα ἂν γένοιτο, καὶ τὰ δυνατὰ κατὰ τὸ εἰκὸς, ἣ τὸ , 
ἀναγκαῖον. For this is the proper difference between the 
historian and poet, not the use of metre. 

3. And poetry is more philosophical than history, because 
it regards τὰ καθόλου, but history τὰ καθ᾽ ἕκαστον. 

. 4, Ἔστι δὲ καθόλου μὲν, τῷ ποίῳ τὰ ποῖ ἅττα συμβαίνει λέ- 
γειν, ij πράττειν κατὰ τὸ εἰκὸς, ἣ τὸ ἀναγκαῖον. οὗ στοχάζεται ἡ 


482 ANALYSIS OF 


ποίησις ὀνόματα ἐπιτιθεμένη" τὰ δὲ καθ᾽ ἕκαστον, τ΄ Αλκιβιάξδης 
ἔπραξεν, ἣ τί ἔπαθεν. 

5. Hence comic writers use names of their own invention, 
but tragedians τῶν γενομένων ὀνομάτων ἀντέχονται, at least one 
or two in each play. 

8. But it is not necessary that a poet should confine him- 
self to τοὺς παραδεδομένους μύθους, but he should be ποιητὴς 
μᾶλλον τῶν μύθων, ἣ τῶν μέτρων, inasmuch as he is ποιητὴς 
κατὰ τὴν μίμησιν" 9. μιμεῖται δὲ τὰς πράξεις ; even if he write 
τὰ γενόμενα, he is no less a poet. 

10. Of simple plots or actions the episodic are the worst. 
And ἐπεισοδιώδης μῦθος is that, ἐν ᾧ τὰ ἐπεισόδια per’ ἄλληλα 
οὔτ᾽ εἰκὸς, οὔτ᾽ ἀνάγκη εἶναι, and such are made by bad poets, 
δι’ αὐτοὺς, but by good ones, διὰ τοὺς ὑποκριτάς. 

12. And since οὗ μόνον τελείας ἐστὶ πράξεως ἡ μίμησις, ἀλλὰ 
καὶ φοβερῶν καὶ ἐλεεινῶν, that which is wonderful must also 
have some appearance of cause, rather than of being ἀπὸ τοῦ 
αὐτομάτου καὶ τῆς τύχης, for even casual events are most won- 
derful when they seem to be from design. 

X.—1. Plots, like actions, are either ἁπλοὶ or πεπλεγμένοι. 

2. ἁπλῆ πρᾶξις, ἧς γενομένης, ὥσπερ ὥρισται, συνεχοῦς καὶ 
μιᾶς, ἄνευ περιπετείας ἣ ἀναγνωρισμοῦ ἡ μετάβασις γίνεται" but 
πεπλεγμένη, ἐξ ἧς μετὰ ἀναγνωρισμοῦ, ἣ περιπετείας, ἢ ἀμφοῖν, 
ἡ μετάβασίς ἐστι. 

3. And these should be the necessary consequences of what 
has gone before, διαφέρει yap πολὺ γίνεσθαι τάδε διὰ τάδε, ἢ 
μετὰ τάδε. 

XIL—1. Ἔστι δὲ περιπέτεια μὲν ἡ εἰς τὸ ἐναντίον τῶν πραττο- 
μένων μεταβολὴ, κατὰ τὸ εἰκὸς, 7) ἀναγκαῖον. 

2. ᾿Αναγνώρισις δ᾽ ἐστὶν, ὥσπερ καὶ τοὔνομα σημαίνει, ἐξ ἀγ- 
voiac εἰς γνῶσιν μεταβολὴ, ἣ εἰς φιλίαν, 7) ἔχθραν τῶν πρὸς 
εὐτυχίαν 7} δυστυχίαν ὡρισμένων. καλλίστη δὲ ἀναγνώρισις, ὅταν 
ἅμα περιπέτειαι γίνωνται. 

3. There are also others, but the above is best, as pro- 
ducing ἔλεον ἣ φόβον. 

5. And since discoveries are relative, they are sometimes 
of one, sometimes of both the persons. 

XII. [ Of doubtful authority. The following, however, are 
the definitions of the parts of quantity. 1. πρόλογος, μέρος 
ὅλον τραγῳδίας τὸ πρὸ χοροῦ παρόδου. 2. ἐπεισόδιον, μέρος ὅλον 
τραγῳδίας, τὸ μεταξὺ ὅλων χορικῶν μελῶν. 8. ἔξοδος, μέρος 


~~ 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC. 483 


ἕλον τραγῳδίας, μεθ᾽ ὃ οὐκ ἔστι χοροῦ μέλος. 4. But of the 
chorus, πάροδος, ἣ πρώτη λέξις ὅλου χοροῦ. And στάσιμον, 
μέλος χοροῦ, τὸ ἄνευ ἀναπαίστου καὶ τροχαίου. 5. κόμμος, θρῆ- 
νος κοινὸς χοροῦ καὶ ἀπὸ σκηνῆς. 

XIII.—2. The poet should aim at a plot that is πεπλεγμένη, 
and φοβερῶν καὶ ἐλεεινῶν μιμητική. He should not represent 
τοὺς ἐπιεικεῖς Changing from happiness to misery, οὐ yap φοβε- 
poy, οὐδὲ ἐλεεινὸν τοῦτο, ἀλλὰ μιαρόν ἐστιν, nor yet the con- - 
trary, for the fall of the wicked does not excite pity or fear, = 
but only τὸ φιλάνθρωπον. 

3. The best subject for tragedy is ὁ μήτε ἀρετῇ διαφέρων, καὶ 
δικαιοσύνῃ, μήτε διὰ κακίαν καὶ μοχθηρίαν μεταβάλλων εἰς τὴν 
δυστυχίαν, ἀλλὰ δι ἁμαρτίαν τινὰ τῶν ἐν μεγάλῃ δόξῃ ὄντων καὶ 
εὐτυχίᾳ. 

4. Hence ἀνάγκη ἄρα τὸν καλῶς ἔχοντα μῦθον ἁπλοῦν εἶναι 
μᾶλλον ἢ διπλοῦν, ὥσπερ τινές φασι, καὶ μεταβάλλειν οὐκ εἰς 
εὐτυχίαν ἐκ δυστυχίας, ἀλλὰ τοὐναντίον ἐξ εὐτυχίας εἰς δυστυ- 
χίαν, μὴ διὰ μοχθηρίαν, ἀλλὰ Ov ἁμαρτίαν μεγάλην, ἢ οἵου εἴρη- 
ται, ἢ βελτίονος μᾶλλον ἣ χείρονος. 5. Thus the plots are 
confined to the adventures of a few families. 

6. Euripides, from his plots ending unhappily, is unduly 
blamed. 

7. But a happy end ‘pleases the weak feelings of the spec- 
tators, as also does the διπλῇ σύστασις, where the play ends in 
a contrary result to the good and bad. 

8. But this is better suited to comedy. 

XIV.—1. Scenic decoration may excite terror and pity, 
but they should rather arise ἐξ αὐτῆς τῆς συστάσεως τῶν 
πραγμάτων, Which is far better, and more suitable to the 
poet’s art. 

2. And ὄψις rather produces τὸ τερατῷδες. 

4. Now, terrible actions must be either between friends, 
enemies, or persons indifferent. But if an enemy kill an 
enemy, οὐδὲν ἐλεεινὸν, as also with indifferent persons. But 
it is between friends and relations that such events become 
piteous. j 

5. Now, we must not essentially alter the received subjects 
of tragedy, but we must invent new ones, and use the old 
judiciously. 

6. Now, this may be done in the following ways: 1. εἰδύτας 
καὶ γιγνώσκοντας, as Medea. 2. ἀγνοοῦντας τὸ δεινὸν, εἶθ᾽ 


484 ANALYSIS OF 


ὕστερον ἀναγνωρίσαι τὴν “φιλίαν, as Cidipus. 3. τὸν μέλ- 
λοντα ποιεῖν τι τῶν ἀνηκέστων δ ἀγνοίαν, ἀναγνωρίσαι πρὶν 
ποιῆσαι. 

7. The worst way is γινώσκοντα “μελλῆσαι, καὶ μὴ πρᾶξαι, 
for it is ἀπαθὲς. Βέλτιον δὲ τὸ ἀγνοοῦντα μὲν πρᾶξαι, πράξαντα 
δὲ ἀναγνωρίσαι. τὸ, τε γὰρ μιαρὸν οὗ πρόσεστι, καὶ ἡ ἀναγνώ- 
ρισις ἐκπληκτικόν. κράτιστον δὲ τὸ τελευταῖον, AS in the Iphi- 
genia in Tauris. 

11. Hence tragedy is confined to a few familios,.& ὅσαις τὰ 
τοιαῦτα συμβέβηκε πάθη. 

XV. Four requisites of τὰ ἤθη. 1. ὅπως ane ἦ. ἕξει ee 
ἦθος μὲν, ἐὰν, ὥσπερ ἐλέχθη, ποιῇ φανερὰν ὁ λόγος, ἢ ἡ πρᾶξις 
προαίρεσίν τινα" φαῦλον μὲν, ἐὰν φαύλην᾽ χρηστὸν δὲ, ἐὰν 
χρηστήν. ἔστι δὲ ἐν ἑκάστῳ YéI% 

2. τὰ ἁρμόττοντα. 

3. τὸ ὅμοιον. 

4, τὸ ὁμαλόν. 

6. Furthermore, χρὴ καὶ ἐν τοῖς ἤθεσιν, ὥσπερ! καὶ ἐν τῇ τῶν 
πραγμάτων συστάσει, ἀεὶ ζητεῖν, ij τὸ ἀναγκαῖον, ij τὸ εἰκός. 7. 
And hence the development of a plot should arise out of the 
plot itself, not out of the machinery, which should be confined 
to ra ἔξω τοῦ δράματος, things happening before or after the 
time of action. And ἄλογον μηδὲν εἶναι ἐν τοῖς πράγμασιν," 
but if so, ἔξω τῆς τραγωδίας. 

8. Like good painters, we must improve upon the original 
we imitate. 

XVI. [ Doubtful. The four kinds of discovery are, 1. ἡ 
διὰ τῶν σημείων, and these are either σύμφυτα, or ἐπίκτητα, 
which are the worst. 2. ai πεποιημέναι ὑπὸ τοῦ ποιητοῦ, also 
οὐκ ἄτεχνοι. 8. διὰ μνήμης. 4. ἐκ συλλογισμοῦ. 

8. But the best is ἡ ἐξ αὐτῶν τῶν πραγμάτων, τῆς ἐκπλήξεως 
γιγνομένης δ εἰκότων. Next to it, ἡ ἐκ συλλογισμοῦ. ] 

XVII.—1. The poet should put himself as much as possi- 
ble in the place of a spectator. 

2. And of an actor likewise, for he will best express agita- 
tion who feels it, δι ὃ ἐυφυοῦς ἡ ποιητική ἐστιν ἢ μανικοῦ. 

3. He should ‘first draw out a general sketch of the subject, 
then add the episodes, taking care that they belong properly 
to the subject. They are short in tragedy, but serve te 
lengthen out an epic poem. 

XVIII. [Doubtful. Every tragedy consists of two parts: 


ARISTOTLE’S POETIC. 485, 


1. &€orc, ἣ ἀπ᾿ ἀρχῆς μέχρι τούτου τοῦ μέρους ὃ Ecxardr ἐστιν, 
ἐξ οὗ μεταβαίνει εἰς εὐτυχίαν. 

2. λύσις, ἡ ἀπὸ τῆς ἀρχῆς τῆς μεταβάσεως μέχρι τέλους. 

Four kinds of tragedy: 1. πεπλεγμένη, ἧς τὸ ὅλον ἐστὶ περι- 
πέτεια καὶ ἀναγνώρισις. 2. παθητική" οἷον, οἵ τε Αἴαντες, καὶ. 
οἱ Ἰξίονες. 8. ἠθική" οἷον, ai Φθιώτιδες και ὁ Πηλεύς. 4. οἷον, 
αἵ τε Φόρκιδες καὶ Προμηθεὺς, καὶ ὅσα ἐν ἅδῃ, with all which the 
poet should be more or less acquainted, for the public now 
expect excellence in all the different kinds. 

3. Tragedies are the same or different, not according to the 
subject, but the δέσις and λύσις. Many poets complicate well, 
but develope badly. | 

4, We must be careful μὴ ποιεῖν ἐποποιΐκον (i. 6. πολύ- 
pvdov) σύστημα τραγφδίαν. 

7. Moreover, the chorus must be considered as one of the 
persons of the drama, and be a part of the whole, not arbi- 
trarily introduced. 

XIX. The διανοία has been treated of in the Rhetoric, and 
includes τό, re ἀποδεικνύναι, καὶ τὸ λύειν, Kal τὸ πάθη παρασκευ- 
ἀζειν" οἷον, ἔλεον, ἢ φόβον, ἢ ὀργὴν, καὶ ὅσα τοιαῦτα, καὶ ἔτι͵ 
μέγεθος, καὶ σμικρότητα. The poet must therefore draw from 
the same sources as the orator, except that in the drama 
things must appear to be such ἄνευ διδασκαλίας, τὰ δὲ ἐν τῷ 
λόγῳ ὑπὸ τοῦ λέγοντος παρασκευάζεσθαι, καὶ παρὰ τὸν λόγον 
γίγνεσθαι. ͵ 

4, The figures of speech concern the actor, rather than the 
poet, οἷον τί ἐντολὴ, καὶ τί εὐχὴ, καὶ διήγησις, καὶ ἀπειλὴ, καὶ 
ἐρώτησις, καὶ ἀπόκρισις, καὶ εἴ τι ἄλλο τοιοῦτον. ᾿ 

XX. [This chapter is an useless scholium. The proper 
divisions and definitions will be found in the Rhetoric. 

XXI.—1. A word is either ἁπλοῦν, ὁ μὴ ἐκ σημαινόντων 
σύγκειται, OY διπλοῦν, either ἐκ σημαίνοντος καὶ ἀσήμου, OY ἐκ 
σημαινόντων. ‘The following are the different kinds. 


; Se “ Sometimes the same word, 
2. 1. κύριον, ᾧ χρῶνται ἕκαστοι. 


8. IL γλῶτταν, ᾧ ἕτεροι. in reference to different 


people, may be both. 

4. Il. μεταφορὰ, ὀνόματος ἀλλοτρίου ἐπιφορὰ, ἢ ἀπὸ γένους 
ἐπὶ εἶδος, ἢ ἀπὸ εἴδους ἐπὶ γένος" ἢἣ ἀπὸ εἴδους ἐπὶ εἶδος, ἢ κατὰ 
τὸ ἀνάλογον. 

9. Iv. πεποιημένον, ὃ ὅλως μὴ καλούμενον ὑπό τινων, αὐτὸς 
τέθεται ὁ ποιητῆς. 


486 ANALYSIS OF 


10. ν. ἐπεκτεταμένον, ἐὰν φωνήεντι μακοοτέρῳ κεχρημένον, ἢ 
τῷ οἰκείῳ, ἢ συλλαβῇ ἐμβεβλημένῃ. 

V1. ἀφῃρημένον, ἂν ἀφῃρημένον ἦ τι, ἣ αὐτοῦ, ἣ ἐμβεβλημένου. 

vu. ἐξηλλαγμένον, ὅταν τοῦ ὀνομαζομένου, τὸ μὲν καταλείπῃ, 
τὸ δὲ ποιῇ. 

[The remainder is both spurious and incorrect. ] 

XXII.—1. The virtues of λέξις are, 

> 


ty << 25 
~ F ‘ \ ’ 
σαφῆ εἶναι κὰι μὴ ταπεινήν. 
ἐκ τῶν κυρίων ὀνομάτων. and such will be ἡ τοῖς ἕενικοὶς 


χρωμένη, 1. 6. γλώτταις, μεταφο- 
ραῖς, καὶ πᾶσ. τοῖς παρὰ τὸ κύριον. 
But too great a use of such words 
will produce an enigma or bar- 
barism, for the very notion of an 
enigma is τὸ λέγοντα ὑπάρχοντα 
ἀδύνατα συνάψαι. 

4. Both effects are produced by a judicious use of αἱ ἐπεκ- 
'ἄσεις καὶ ἀποκοπαὶ, καὶ ἐξαλλαγαὶ τῶν ὀνομάτων. 

9. But a judicious use of metaphors is the greatest excel- 
lence of all, for it cannot be derived from another, and is a sign 
τῆς εὐφυΐας, τὸ γὰρ εὖ μεταφερειν, TO ὅμοιον θεωρεῖν ἐστι. 

10. τὰ διπλᾶ are best suited to dithyrambs. 

γλῶτται, to heroic verse. 
μεταφοραὶ, to Iambic. 

But heroie verse admits of all these kinds. JIambic should 
approach as much as possible to the diction of common life. 

XXIII. In narrative and hexameter verse, the story ought 
to be dramatically constructed, as in tragedy, i. e. it should be 
περὶ μίαν πρᾶξιν ὅλην καὶ τελείαν, ἔχουσαν ἀρχὴν καὶ μέσον καὶ 
τέλος, ἵν᾽, ὥσπερ ζῶον ἕν ὅλον, ποιῇ τὴν οἰκείαν ἡδονὴν, differing 
from history, which treats of events of one time, not of one 
action. 

8. Hence the excellent management of Homer in not at- 
tempting to bring the whole war into his poem, but only 
taking one part, filling it out with episodes. 

XXIV. The epic poem snould also agree with the tragic 
as to its kinds [simple or complicated, moral or disastrous 9. 
Its parts are also the same, except μελοποιΐία and ὄψις, for it 
must have περιπετείαι, ἀναγνωρίσεις, παθήματα, διανοίαι, and 


ARISTUTLE’S POETIC. 487 


λέξις, suitably arranged, as in Homer, ἡ μὲν Ιλιὰς, ἁπλοῦν καὶ 
“αθητικόν" ἡ δὲ Οδύσσεια, πεπλεγμένον. ἀναγνώρισις γὰρ διόλου 
καὶ ἠθική. πρὸς δὲ τούτοις λέξει καὶ διανοίᾳ πάντας ὑπερ(βθεβληκε. 

8. It also differs in length. 

4. For it has the advantage of being extended by narrative 
of many simultaneous actions, which increase the ὄγκος rot 
«οιήματος, and also by different episodes. 

5. Heroic is the established metre of narrative poetry, for it 
iS στασιμώτατον καὶ ὀγκωδέστατον, but the lambic and 'Trochaic 
κινητικὰ, TO μὲν, ὀρχηστικόν, TO δὲ, πρακτικόν. 

6. A mixture of these metres is absurd. 

7. Like Homer, the poet should know when it is fitting for 
him to speak in person. 

8. The θαυμαστὸν is necessary in tragedy, but in epopee 
even τὸ ἄλογον is admitted, which is most wonderful, διὰ τα 
μὴ ὁρᾷν εἰς τὸν πράττοντα. 

9. And Homer has chiefly taught other poets ψευδῆ λέγειν 
ὡς δεῖ, which is by a παραλογισμός on the part of the hearer. 

10. And the poet should prefer ἀδύνατα καὶ εἰκότα, μᾶλλον 
ἢ δυνατὰ καὶ ἀπίθανα" τοὺς Te λόγους μὴ συνίστασθαι ἐκ μερῶν 
ἀλόγων, ἀλλὰ μάλιστα μὲν μηδὲν ἔχειν ἄλογον" εἰ δὲ μὴ, ἔξω 
τοῦ μυθεύματος, as Cidipus’ ignorance as to the manner of 
Laius’ death. 

11. And the diction should be most studied in the idle 
parts of the poem, where there are neither manners nor senti- 
ment. For these latter are obscured by over-fine diction. 

XXV. and XXVI. [ Very doubifut. As these two chap 
ters are quite unintelligible, except in reference to the ex- 
amples quoted, it is of little use to analyse them. | 


THE END, 


Ἂν» 
ay 


Se cot ae 


’ ἵν 


_ 
a 


INDEX 


To 


ARISTOTLE’S TREATISES 


ΟΝ 


RHETORIC AND THE POETIC. 


Asi.ity, a specific good, 41. 

Abundant, the, better than the rare, 
48. 

Accent, objections to, removed, 467. 

Accident, an element of the ap- 
parent enthymem, 195. 

Accomplices in guilt, to be feared, 
1 


Accusation and defence, various 
reasonings in, 67. 

Achilles, anger of, 107. 

Action, habitual, attended with 
pleasure, 76. 

Actions, tragedy an imitation of, 
418. 


Actors, complaints respecting, 471. 

Admiration, attended with pleasure, 
76, 77 

Adulation, meaning of, explained, 


Adultery, legal definition of, 88, 89. 
Enesidemus, specious liberality of, 


85. 

Zésop, fables of, 166, 167. 

Agatho, remark of, 163; lines from, 
425 


Aged, see Old Age. 
Ages, definition of, 150. 
Αἴτιον, definition of, 47, n. 
bry the subject matter of logic, 
n. 
ἀλαζὼν, application of the word, 
10, 2. 
2x2 


Appetite, impulse of the, 71; 


Alceus, saying of, 60. 

*Alcmeon’”? of Astydamas, the 
tragedy of, 434 et ἢ. 

Alliteration, instances of, 233. 

Ambiguity, an element of apparent 
enthymems, 192 

Ambitious, the, likely to feel indig- 
nation, 144; disposed to envy, 
145, 

Amplification, necessity for, 65, 66. 

—— and extenuation, observations 
on, 201. 

Amusements, attended with plea 
sure, 70. 

Analogy, an element of the enthy- 
mem, 186. 

Androcles, the orator, 188. 

Anger, feelings of, 3, 71; definition 
of, 105; persons against whom 
and by whom it is felt, ib. ex 
seg.; three species of, 106; how 
allayed, 114. 

—— and hatred, six points of com- 
parison between, 120. 

Anomalies, an element of the en- 
thymem, 190. 

Antimachus, precept of, 223. 

Antithesis, of style, 232; the false 
one, 234, 

the 
desire of what is pleasant, 73; 
irrational and rational, ἐδ, 

"Apxn, definition of, 47. 


490 


Areopagus, practice of the, 3. 

Argos, pecuiiar law at, 93. 

Arguing from cause to effect, an 
element of the enthymem, 190. 

Arguments, on the solution of, 197 
et seq. 

Aristippus, .passage from, 184. 

Aristocracy, form of government, 
55. 

' Articles, one of the parts of diction, 

449. 


Arts, illustration from the, 4, n. 

Auditors, feelings of the, 12; held 
to be ἀπλοὶ, 15; three kinds of, 
21; how to appease the, 115. 


B. 


Bacchic hymns, all the means of 
imitation employed together by, 
409, n. 

Badges, honourable, 61. 

Beauty, different according # dif- 
ference of age, 36; of objects and 
words, 213; of style, 234; mag- 
nitude the constituent of, 421. 

Benefactors, friendliness felt for, 
117. 

Benevolence, object of, 134. 

Birth, high, qualities of, 34; cha- 
racteristic disposition of, 156. 

Body, excellencies of the, 36. 

Brave, the, friendliness felt for, 117. 


C. 
Calippus the orator, 188. 
Callistratus, his charge against 


Melenopus, 92. 
Cases, one of the parts of diction, 
449. 
Censure, attended with pleasure, 78. 


Chance, definition of, 38; mankind | 


impelled by, 70; on the circum- 
stances of, 426. 

Character, goodness of, 35; a spe- 
cific good, 41; attended with 
pleasure, 75; men of, are some- 
times impelled to commit injus- 
tice, 82; comparison of, to be 
made, 66; what constitutes, 418. 


Charemon, saying .f, 191. 

Χάρις, definition of, 133. 

Χειμαινει, meaning of, 44], n. 

. Chorus, a part of tragedy, 429+ ita 
various divisions, ἐδ. ; business of 
the, 445; gradual extinction of 
the, ἐδ., ἢ. 

Cicero, caution of, 16, π. 

Cithern-playing, a favourite accom- 
plishment of the Athenian youth, 
407, n. 

Comedy, an imitative art, 407; ori- 
gin of, 413, 415 et seg. 

Comeliness, different according :ὸ 
difference of age, 36. 

Commendation, language of, 6.1, 65 

Commos, a part of the chorus, 429 

Community, injustice to the, de- 
fined, 87. 

Compacts, definition of, 98. 

Compulsion, the motive of human 
action, 70. 

Confidence, definition of, 125; how 
eee ἐδ.; persons who feel, 


| Conjunctions, one of the parts of 


diction, 449. 

Conon, expression of, 191. 

Consequents, an element of the en- 
thymena, 185, 186. 

Constraint, freedom from, pleasant, 
73. A 

Contempt, a feeling contrary to 
emulation, 149. 

Contraries, an element of the en- 
thymem, 178; consideration of, 
468. 

Contumely, definition of, 107. 

Courage, quality of, 50; a consti- 
tuent of virtue, 58. 

Cowardice, illustration of, 128. 

Crimes, on the various degrees of, 
92 et seg. 

Critics, objections of, answered, 
463 et seq. 

Custom, mankind impelled by, 71. 


D. 
Dancing, an imitative art 408 


Danger, an object of fear, 122 


INDEX. 


Decisions, legal, an element of the 
enthymem, 184. 

Declamation, often ridiculous when 
read, 247. 

Decoraticn, a certain part of tra- 
gedy, 417 et n. 

Deeds, one of the proofs necessary 
in judicial oratory, 98; argu- 
ments to be used for and against, 
98, 99. 

Definition, an element of the en- 
thymem, 182. 

Definitions of Aristotle’s Rhetoric, 
yoo οι of his Poetic, 478— 
487. 

Delicacy of feeling, disquisition on, 
127 et seq. 

Democracy, form of government, 55. 

Depravity, the cause of injustice, 68. 

Διαβολὴ, use of the word, 3, n. 

Διαλεκτικὴ, explanation of, 23, n. 

Διαλεκτικὸς, explained, 10, n. 

Dialectics, rhetoric an offshoot of, 
13. 

Avavoia, a certain part of tragedy, 
417 et n. 

Diction, an element of apparent en- 
thymems, 192; definition of, 420; 
en the use of, in tragedy, 446; on 
the various parts of, 447 δὲ seq.; 
requisites of, 454 et seg.; should 
sometimes be laboured, 463; 
many modifications of, 464 ; criti- 
cal objections to, removed, 466 ; 
custom of, 468. 

Dilemma, an element of the enthy- 
mem, 185 

Διοννσοκόλακας, origin of the term, 
211, 2. 

Discovery, explanation of, in fable, 
427; feelings excited by the, 428; 
on the different kinds of, 438 et 
seq. 

er crea minute, to be avoided, 

8 


Disgraced, the, motives of, for com- 
mitting injustice, 83. 

Dissembling, the, to be feared, 123. 

Dithyrambic poetry, an imitative 
art, 407; all the means of imita- 
tion employed together by, 409, n. 


49} 


Dorieus, conqueror at the Olympic 
games, 17. 

Draco, the laws of, 191. 

Drama, etymology of the, 411; on 
its various parts, 420; on exhibi- 
tions in the, 421. 


E. 


Eidn, use of the term, 22, 23. 

Εἰκὸς, definition of, 17 et seg.; en- 
thymems deduced from, 17; so- 
lution of, sometimes fallacious, 
199 

᾿Εκπίπτειν, meaning of, 44], n. 

Empedocles, saying of, 87. 

Emulation, definition of, 1473; na- 
ture, objects, and feelings of, 147 
et seq. 

Encomium, language of, 64. 

Enemies, motives of, for committing 
injustice, 83, 84; objects of fear, 
122. 

Enthymems, the very body of proof, 
3, 7; consequence of disregard- 
ing, 5, n.; a sort of syllogism, 7, 
14; deduced from εἰκότα and 
σημεῖα, 17 et seg.; two different 
sorts of, 22, 177; suited to judi- 
cial oratory, 66; on the nature 
and use of, 168, 174 et seg.; va- 
rious elements of, 178 et seg.; 
how to be used in legal proof, 
263, 265, 267. 

, fallacious, the various ele- 
ments of, 192 e¢ seq. 

Enumeration of parts. an element 
of the enthymem, 185. 

Envy, opposéd to pity, 141; defini- 
tion of, 141, 145; on the nature, 
objects, and feelings of, 145 e¢ 
seq. 

νι αῤμὶ definition of, 64. 

Epic Poetry, similarity of tragedy 
to, 416; observations on, 458; 
different species and parts of, 459 
et seqg.; merit of imitation in, as 
compared with tragedy, 470 δέ 
seq. 

᾿Επιχαιρεκακία, 
142, Ne 


explanation of, 


492 


Epideictic oratory, the subjects of, 
57; the common point of, 64; 
amplification suitable to, 66; 
general nature of, 175. 

style suited to writing, 248. 

᾿Επιποιία, difficulty of defining, 
408, 5. 

Episode, a part of tragedy, 429; 
must be suitable to the plot, 442; 
Homer’s use of, 458. 

Epithets, on the use of, 213, 215. 

Epopee, an imitative art, 407, 408 ; 
various parts of the, 459; its 
power of extension, and its pro- 
per metre, 460; necessity for the 
wonderful in, 461. 

Equals, likely to be envied, 146. 

Equipoise of style, 233. 

Equity, in law, explanation of, 89 
et seq. 

Equivocation, an element of the 
enthymem, 191. 

Errors, previously committed, an 
element of the enthymem, 190. 

Ἤθη explained, 149, n. 

Eubulus, adopts a saying of Plato,97. 

Euphony, necessity of, 212. 

Euripides, his reply to the Syra- 
cusans, 131. 

πὐτράπελοι, remarks on, 152, ἢ. 

Exaggeration, an element of the ap- 
parent enthymems, 194. 

Examples, suited to deliberative 
oratory, 66; different kinds of, 
and their use, 165 et seg.; reason- 
ings derived from, 199; solution 
of, 200; best suited to proofs, 263. 

Excellencies, personal, attended with 
pleasure, 78. 

Excess of good or evil, 46 et seg. 

Exhorting, objects of, in oratory, 33. 

Exode, a part of tragedy, 429. 

Exordium, occurrence of the, 250; 
on the nature and use of the, 251 
et seq. 

Expedient, the object of, proposed, 
39; what is the higher degree of, 
44, 


Exports, necessary to be under- 
stood by the orator, 81. 


Extenuation, ebservations on, 201. | 


INDEX: 


F. 


Fable, or Apologue, use of, by way 
of example, 166; suited to the 
deliberative orator, 167. 

definition of, 418; revolutions 
and discoveries of, the cause of 
pleasure, 419; the soul of tra- 
gedy, ἐδ. ; on the unity of, 422 
et seg.; on the simple and com- 
plex, 426, 427; the various requi- 
sites of, 427, 428; the simple 
preferable to the two-fold, 431; 
precepts respecting, 434; exam- 
ple of, 2b.; on the incidents of, 437. 

Fact, questions of, to be left to the 
judge, 5. 

Fallacies of apparent enthymems, 
192 et seq. 

Fear, definition of, 121; on the na- 
ture and objects of, 121 δέ seg. 
closely allied to pity, 124. 

Feeling essential to the poet, 441. 

Feelings of delicacy and shame, dis- 
quisition on, 127 δὲ seg. 

Flattery attended with pleasure, 76. 

hi hai the, friendliness felt for, 

Fortunate, the, dispositions and cha- 
racteristics of, 159. 

Fortune, definitions of, 38, 150. 
Friendless, the, disposition of, for 
committing injustice, 84. 
Friendliness, definition of, 116; 
those to whom we entertain the 

feelings of, 116 e¢ seq. 

Friends, number and excellence of, 
the difference defined, 38; mo- 
hi of, for committing injustice, 

3 


Friendship, attended with pleasure, 
78; causes of, 116 e¢ seg., 119; 
three kinds of, 119. 


G. 


Genders, on the proper distinction 
of, 221; remarks on, 454. 

Generous, distinguished 4rom noble, 
56. 


INDEX. 


Genius, high, ἃ special good, 41. 

ἔλῶττα, use of, 209. 

Good, to do and to receive, condu- 
cive to pleasure, 77. 

fortune, definition of, 38. 

—— old age, definition of, 38. 

—— qualities, apparent, to be re- 
garded as real, 62. 

——— and expedient, the, proposi- 
tions on the subjects of, 39 e¢ 
seq.; what is the greater degree 
of, 44 et seg. 

Goods, internal and external, 34; 
indisputable, 40; disputable, 41. 

Gorgias, saying of, 265. 

Government, reasons for under- 
standing the different forms of, 
54 et seg.; the four forms de- 
fined, 55; ends of each, ἐδ. ; the 
orator should know them, 56. 

Gratitude, on the feelings of, 133 
et seg.; the orator to invest the 
audience with feelings of, 135. 

Great and small, on the subject of, 
165. 

Greater, as compared with less, 46 
et seq. 

Grief for another’s calamity is pity, 
136, 7. 

Guilt, on the various degrees of, 92 
et seq. ‘ 

Gymnastic excellence described, 37. 


H. 


Habits, definition of, 150. 

Happiness, the object of mankind, 
33; four definitions of, %.; 
opinion of the schools on, ἐδ. n. ; 
a specific good, 40. 

Harmony and rhythm, originate 
from imitation, 412. 

Hatred, causes of, 120; six points 
of comparison between anger and, 
120. 

Health, the excellency of the body, 
36; a specific good, 41. 

Hearers, see Auditors. 

Hegesippus, consults the oracle, 184. 

Hero, character of the, to be mode- 
rately drawn, 43], 432. 


498 


Herodicus, expression of, 191. 
ον encomium passed on, 
Ὁ 


History, how it differs from poetry, 
and how it should be applied in, 
423 et seq. 

** Hobbes’ Brief of the Art of Rhe- 
toric,” 275—376. 

Homer, passage from, 143; epic 
skill of, 422; genius of, 458, 


Honour, evidence of character, 35; 
a specific good, 41; attended 
with pleasure, 75. 

—— men of, their motives for com- 
mitting injustice, 88. 

Hope, conducive to pleasure, 73. 

Horror, distinct from pity, 139. 

Hurt, explanation of, 88. 

Husbandmen, friendliness felt for, 
1112 ᾿ 

Hyperbole, a sort of metaphor, 245 


I, 


_Iambic metre, suitableness of, tc 


tragedy, 414; origin of, 415. 
Ideas, rules for recognising, 441. 
Iliad and Odyssey, difference be- 

tween the, 460. 

Ill-will, feeling of, 3. | 
Images, natural delight in, 412. 
Imitation, attended with pleasure, 

77; the various objects of, in 

poetry, 409, 410; difference in the 

manner, 410, 411; the first natu- 
ral taste for, in poetry, 412; har- 
mony and rhythm originate from, 

412, 413; respective merits of 

tragic and epic, 470 et seg. 
Imitative arts, different species of, 

407 
Imports, questions of, to be familiar 

to the orator, 31. 

Impossible, disquisition on the, 161 
et seq. 

Impudence, definition of, 127. 

Imputations, topics for removing, 

255 et seg. 

Inconsistency, an element of the 

enthymem, 187, 


— 


494 

Incontinence, the cause of injustice, 
68; definition of, 82, 

lucontinent, the, disposition of, to 
commit injustice, 82. 

Incredibility, an element of the en- 
thymem, 188. 

Indignation, on the nature, objects, 
and feelings of, 140 e¢ seg. 

Individual, injustice to the, defined, 
87. 

Indolent, the, motives of, for com- 
mitting injustice, 83. 

{nduction, rhetorical, 21; an ele- 
ment of the enthymem, 183. 

Inflections, an element of the en- 
tuymem derivable from, 179. 

Injured, the, disposition of, for com- 
mitting injustice, 83, 85; are ob- 
jects of fear, 123. 

Injury, definition of, 88. 

Injustice, two causes of, 68; the 
motives of, ἐδ. ; with what dispo- 
sitions men commit it, 79 et seg. ; 
various acts of, enumerated and 
defined, 86 et seg.; on the greater 
degrees of, 92 δέ seg.; an object 
of fear, 122. 

Innocent, the, objects of fear, 127; 
sensible of shame, 130. 

Insult, legal definition of, 88, 89. 

Insulted virtue, an object of fear, 
122. 

Intemperance, illustration of, 128. 

Interrogation, on the nature and use 
of, 267 et seg. 

Iphicrates, encomium on himself, 
a 63; passages from, 181, 182, 


Ismenias, the orator, 183. 
Isocrates, passages from, 184, 185. 


J. 


Jason, a saying of, 85. 

Jests, nature of, 241, 

Judge,the,not to be biassed by appeal. 
ing to thé passions, 3; laws not to 
be left to his discretion, 4; ques- 
tions of fact to be left to him, 5; 
does not always fulfil the charac- 
ter. 6; necessity of investing him 


INDEX. 


with a favourable feeling, 103 9 
seq. 
Justice, a constituent of virtue, 58, 


K. 


Καλὸν, τὸ, defined, 57; the various 
points of the, 59. 

Κότταβος, amusement of the, 85, 2. 

Kpitijs τοῦ νόμου κάνων, applic: 
tion of the metaphor, 3, ἢ. 

Kuga, use of, 209 et ἢ. 


L. 


Lacedemonians, custom of wearing 
the hair among the, 62. 

Language, purity of, necessary, 
219 et seg. 

γεν ie attended with pleasure, 


Law, forbids irrelevant matter, 7; 
the various objects of, 29, n. ; 
questions of, 31; peculiar or uni- 
versal, 67, 86; Demosthenes’ ex- 
planation of, ἐδ.» n.; written and 
unwritten, 89; on the violation 
of, 93; how the orator is to adapt 
it to his purpose, 94; one of the 
proofs necessary in judicial ora- 
tory, 94, 95; distinguished from 
deeds or compacts, 98. 

Learning, attended with pleasure,77. 

Legislation, questions of, 31; ac- 
counts of travellers useful to, 32. 

Leodamus, sayings of, 48, 96. 

Letters, one of the parts of diction, 
448. 

Liberality, a constituent of virtue, 
58 


Locrians, law of retaliation among 
the, 53, . 

Logic, rhetoric the counterpart of, 
1, 28; Zeno’s illustration of, 2, 
n.; how it differs from rhetoric, 
10; ἀληθὲς the subject matter 
of, 10, n. : 

Logician, reasons why he may he 
the best rhetorician, 7. 

Λόγος, explanation of, 14, a, 

Love, criterion of, 74. 


INDEX. 


M. 


Magnanimity, a constituent of vir- 
tue, 58. 

Magnificence, a constituent of vir- 
tue, 59. 

Magnitude, the constituent’of beau- 
ty, 421. 

Manhood, dispositions and charac- 
teristics of, 155 et seq. 

Mavixwtepa, remarks on, 157, n. 

Mankind, characters of, 149. 

Manners, definition of, 418, 419; 
not the end of. tragedy, 418; the 
various requisites of, 435 et seq. 

Manlius, the orator, 189, 

aoe the inventors of, not known, 
415. 

Maxims, different kinds of, and 
their use, 169 et seg.; to be used 
in the proof and narration, 264. 

Meanness, illustration of, 128. 

Melopeia, a certain part of tragedy, 
417 et n., 420. 

Memory, conducive to pleasure, 
73, 74; on recognition by, 439. 
**Menalippe the Wise,” tragedy of, 

438 et ἢ. 
Μέρος πρὸς μέρος, explanation of, 


Μεταφοραὶ, use of, 209. 

Metaphors, on the nature and use 
of, 210, 219; misuse of, 216; 
productive of pleasure, 234; four- 
fold, 236; various instances of, 
239; produce personification, 
240; on the different species of, 
450; exemplifications of, 452; 
means of employing them, 453, 
456; critical objections to, an- 
swered, 467. 

Metre, difference of from rhythm, 
412, n. 

Metres, mixed, obscurity of, 461. 

Monarchy, a form of government, 
59 


Monstrous, the, not tragic, 433. 

Moral excellence, necessary for the 
orator, 104. 

~——— sentiments, different kinds of, 


495 


their use and advantage, 169 et 
seq. 

Motives, an element of the enthy- 
mem, 186, 188. 

of injustice, causes of the, 68 

et seq. 


N. 


Narration, on the nature and use 
of, 258 et seg.; to be made pa- 
thetic and moral, 261; least used 
in deliberative oratory, 262. 

Narrow-minded, the, disposed to 
envy, 145. 

Natural logic, illustration of, 2, ». 

Nature, mankind impelled by, 70; 
conformity to, attended with plea- 
sure, 77. 

Necessity, acts of, painful, 73. 

Noble, distinguished from generous, 

Nomes, a species of hymns to Apol- 
lo, 409, n. 

Nouns, one of the parts of diction, 
449; the different species of, 450, 
451, 453, 454. 


O. 


Oaths, one of the proofs necessary 
in judicial evidence, 100; their 
fourfold division, 100 e¢ seg. 

Objections, fourfold, 198; of the 
critics answered, 463 e¢ seq. 

Offspring, the excellence of a good, 
34 


Oixeia, use of, 209. 

Old Age, a specific good, 37; pase 
sions, habits, and characteristics 
of, 152 et seg. 

Oligarchy, form of government, 55 

Olympic victor, inscription of the, 
52, 63. 

Oration, three things proposed by 
an, 24; three kinds of, ἐδ. ; end 
peculiar to each, 25; illustration 
of, 26. 

Orator, the object of the deliberative, 
25; propositions necessary to, 
26, 27, et seg.; objects at which 


496 


he should aim in exhorting or 
dissuading, 33 et seg.; should 
advise on “‘ the means,” 39; 
should understand the different 
forms of government, 54 et seg.; 
virtue and vice the objects of, 57 
et seg.; the number and nature 
of the sources out of which he 
must construct his reasonings, 
67 et seg.; how he is to adapt 
the laws to his purpose, 94; three 
requisites necessary for his gain- 
ing belief, φρόνησις, ἀρετὴ, and 
εὔνοια, 104; by exciting envy he 
will remove pity, 147; fables 
suited to, 167. 

Oratory, strictures on previous sys- 
tems of, 2; judicial preferred to 
deliberative, 5; five occasions 
for the employment of, 29; war 
and peace, 30; demonstrative 
and deliberative, 64; judicial, 67; 
five proofs peculiar to, 94; some 
topics common to all the species 
of, 160; deliberative more diffi- 
cult than judicial, 264. 


P. 


Pean, use of the, 227, 228. 
Painter, objects of the, 423, n. 
Painting, attended with pleasure, 
77; objects of imitation in, 409; 
comparisons with, necessary, 
437. 
Pamphilus, the orator, 188. 
Panegyric, before whom pronounc- 
ed to be considered, 63; to 
show that the object of, has acted 
on principle, 64. 
Paradoxes, nature of, 241. 
Parodos, a part of the chorus, 429. 
Particles, on the proper use of, 
220. 
Passions, on undue appeals to the, 3. 
of the young, disquisition on 
the, 149 et seg. 
Pathos, necessity of, in fable, 428. 
Peculiar, use of the term, 22. 
Pericles, saying of, 52; simile of, 
218. 


INDEX. 


Periods, on the management of, 
231; style of, 232. 

Perjury, definition of, 102. 

Peroration, not always necessary, 
250; on the nature and use of 
the, 270, 271. 

Personification, on the characters 
istics and advantages of, 239 et 


seg. 

Perspicuity, advantages of, 207, n. 

Persuasion, how effected, 12; ob- 

ject of, in oratory, 33; means of, 
6 


56. 

Philip of Macedon, argument of 
Iphicrates against, 181. 

Philocrates, anecdote of, 114, 

Φορτικὸν, explained, 204, n. 

Photagoras, sophistry of, 197. 

Φρόνιμοι, oi, explanation of, 130, n. 

Πίστεις, defined, 11, 12, x; subdi- 
vision of, 14; remarks on the 
term, 94, n. 

Πίστις, uncertain signification of, 
2, . ; neglect of the, 3. 

ν τῷ ἤθει τοῦ λέγοντος, dis- 
cussion of the, 103. 

Pity, feeling of, 3; closely allied to 
fear, 124; definition of, 136; dis- 
quisition on, 136 e¢ seg. ; horror 
distinct from, 139; indignation 
and envy opposed to, 140, 141; 
leading principles of, 154; how 
produced, 432 et seg. 

Placability, persons susceptible of, 
and the occasions on which it is 
ΤῊΣ 112 et seg.; definition of, 

Places, use of the expression, 22. 

Plato, saying of, 97. 

Pleader, business of a, 3, 6. 

Pleasure, a specific good, 40; mo« 
tives comprehended in, 71 ; what 
conduces to, 72; definition of, 
ib.; the various sources which 
contribute to, 7b. et seq. 

Plot, definition of a, 420; applica- 
tion of unity to, 422; the poet’s 
object rather than the metre, 425; 
episodic the worst, ἐδ. ; essentials 
for, in tragedy, 430 et seg.; on 
recognition in and discovery, 438 


INDEX. 


“«ἰ seqg.; rules for realizing ideas, 
441; general sketch of tonn 
formed, 442. 

Poet, etymology of the name, 408. 

Poetic, Aristotle’s, Questions on, 
473—-477; Analysis of, with the 
original Definitions, 478—487. 

Poetry, attended with pleasure, 77 ; 

' 8} imitative art, 407 δέ seg.; its 
influence and different species 
of, ἐδ. ; the various objects of imi- 
tation, 409; difference of, accord- 
ing tc the manner of imitating, 
410, 411; the causes and progress 
of, 412 et seg.; how it differs 
from history, and how historical 
matter should be used in, 423 et 
seg.; different words suited to 
each kind of, 456, 457; on the 
Epic, 458; false reasonings re- 
specting, 462. 

Poets, means employed by different 
kinds of, 409; should feel what 
they write, 441. 

Ποιήτης“, definition of, 408, n. 

Politics, rhetoric an offshoot of,. 13. 

Polus, expression of, 191. 

Polycrates, the sophist, 195. 

Possible and impossible, disquisition 
on the, 161 e¢ seg. 

Poverty, a motive for committing 
wrong, 82. 

Power, attended with pleasure, 78; 
dispositions and characteristics 
of men in, 159. 

Powerful, the, disposition of, for 
committing injustice, 80. 

Praise and blame, from what con- 
siderations derived, 57. 

Prelude, explained, 251. 

Probability, reasonings derived 
from, 199; on the contingencies 
of, 425, n., 487, 

Prologue, explained, 251; a part of 
tragedy, 429. 

Proofs, on the nature of, and their 
various sources, 262 et seg.; pe- 
culiar to judicial oratory, five in 
number, 94. 

Property, essentials of, 35. 


497 


Propositions necessary to the ora- 
tor, 26, 27, et seq. 

Πρόσφατοι, judicial witnesses, 96 

Proverbs, one of the proofs neces- 
sary in judicial oratory, 96; a 
sort of metaphor, 245. 

Provisions, a knowledge of imports 
and exports of, necessary to the 
judicial orator, 31. 

Prudence, a constituent of virtue, 
59 ; necessary for the orator, 104, 

Punctuation, critical objections to, 
answered, 467. 

Puns, nature of, 242, 243. 

Purity of language, necessity of, 
219 et seq. 


Q. 


Questions, on the nature and use of. 
in legal proof, 267 e¢ seg. 


R. 


Reasoning, forms of, 22; derived 
from four sources, 199; on recog- 
nition by, 439. 

Recognition, on the different kinds 
of, in the development of plot, 
438. 

Refutation, an element of the en- 
thymem, 189; more in repute 
than the confirmative, 191. 

—— enthymems to be preferred, 
265. 

Relatives, an element of the enthy- 
mem, 179. 

Reprehension, when correct, 470. 

‘Pnropeia, explanation of, 14, n. 

Revenge, is honourable, 61; so- 
phistry of, ἐδ., ἢ. ; attended with 
pleasure, 75. 

Revolution, definition of, in fable, 
427; feelings excited by the, 428. 

Rhetoric, the counterpart of logic, 
1, 28; Plato’s opinion of, ἐδ. ; 
can be reduced to a system, 2; 
strictures of previous systems, ἐδ.; 
Zeno’s illustration of, ἐδ.» n.; en- 
thymem the proof of, 7; utility 
of, %., 8; obiections against tlie 


698 


abuse of, answered, 9; end and 
duty of, ἐδ. ; how it differs from 
logic, 10; definition of, 11 e¢ 
seg.; an offshoot of dialectics and 
politics, 13, 29; three kinds of, 
24, 25; to be treated as a science, 
9; on the various parts of, 203 
et seg.; its influence, 205; a dis- 
tinct style appropriate to each 
species of, 246 et seg. 

Rhetoric, Aristotle’s, ‘ Analytical 
Questions on,’’ 347—384; ‘* Ap- 
pendix to the Analysis, containing 
the original Definitions,” 385— 
403. 

—— “ Hobbes’ Brief of the Art of,” 
275—376. 

Rhetorician, reasons why the logi- 
cian may excel him, 7. 

Rhythm, on the nature and varieties 
of, 226 et seg.; its difference 
from metre, 412, ἢ. 

Rich, the, objects of fear, 126. 

Ridicule, on the nature and use of, 
267 et seq. 

Rivals, objects of fear, 123; likely 
to be envied, 146. 


5. 


Safeguard of the country, questions 
respecting the, 31. 

Sappho, quotation from, 60. 

Satyric drama, origin of, 414, νι. 

Σχήματα λέξεως, on the meaning 
of, 446, 447, n. 

Science, takes cognisance of its pe- 
culiar truths, 49. 

Sculpture, attended with pleasure, 
Tas 

“ Scylla,” tragedy of, 434. 

Selfishness, freedom from, honour- 
able, 60. 

Σημεῖον, definition of, 17 et 86. ἢ 
enthymems deduced from, 17; 
reasonings derived from, 199. 

Senses, the, an element of the en- 
thymem, 183. 

Sentences, one of the parts of dic- 
tior 450. 


INDEX 


Sentiment, definition of, 418, 419, 
on the use of, in tragedy, 446. 
Shame, definition of, 127; illustra- 

tions of, 130 et seg. 

Similes, on the nature and use of, 
217 et seg.; instances of, 218; 
effect of, 235; a sort of metaphor, 
244. 

Simonides, verses of, 43; epitaph 
by, 63; poem of, noticed, 214. 
Sincere, the, friendliness felt for, 

119. 

Socrates, saying of, 63; conclusive 
reasoning of, 268. 

Σόλοικοι, use of the word, 157, n. 

Solon, saying of, 96. 

Solution, should arise from the fa- 
ble, 437. 

Soothsayers, judicial witnesses of 
the future, 96. 

Σοφιστὴς explained, 10, n. 

Sophists, character of, 10, 11; dise 
putations of the, 196. 

Sophocles, sentiment of, 87 : saying 
of, 92; passages from, 95, 191. 
Sorrow, attended with pleasure, 75. 
Speaking, different means of per- 
suading by, 12; importance of 
the manner of, 12, ”.; various 

styles of, 14. 

Speaker, duties of the first and last, 
266; character of the, how con- 
yeyed, 267. 

Speech, three points in a, πίστις, 
λέξις, and τάξις, 203; three 
things requisite, μέγεθος, ἁρμονία, 
and ῥύθμος, 204; delivery of a, 
205; on the various parts of a, 
249, 250. 

Stasimon, a part of the chorus, 429. 

Stature, excellencies of, 37; quali- 
ties of, 7b. 

Stilbon, the orator, 183. 

Strength, definition of, 37. 

Style, excellence of, defined, 207; 
disquisition on, ἐφ. δέ seg.; on 
the frigidity of, 214 et seg.; on 
the purity of, 219 et seg.; general 
rules for, 221, 225; on elevation 
of, 222 et seg.; what is the most 


INDEX. 


becoming, 224 et seg. ; necessity 
of rhythm, 226; the continuous, 
229; the reflex, 230; manage- 
ment of periods in, 232; on the 
elegancies and beauties of, 234 
et seg.; the three requisites, 236 ; 
a distinct one appropriate to each 
kind of rhetoric, 246 et seg.; de- 
liberative and judicial, 248. 

Successful, the, likely to be en- 
vied, 146, 

Syllables, one of the parts of dic- 
tion, 448. 

Syllogism, definition of, 14. 

Systems of oratory, strictures on, 2. 


τ. 


Talented, the, motives of, for com- 
mitting injustice, 83. 

Tattlers, sensible of shame, 131. 

Τεκμήριον, definition of, 20, 21; 
reasonings derived from, 199, 
200. 

Temperance, a constituent of vir- 
tue, 58. 

Terrible, definition of the, 426. 

Terror, how produced, 432 et seg. 

Theft, legal definition of, 88, 89. 

Themistocles, expression of, 96. 

Theodectes the tragedian and ora- 
tor, 180, 183, 185, 186, 187, 189. 

Θορυβοῦνται, mistake in the sense 
of, 15, x. 

Time, an element of the enthymem, 
183. 

Topics, necessary for removing as- 
persions, 255 et seg. 

Toro, use of the word, 22. 

Torture, one of the proofs necessary 
in judicial oratory, 100 

Tragedy, an imitative art, 407 ; 
origin of, 413; A®schylus and 
Sophocles improve it, 414; suit- 
ableness of Iambic metre to, ἐδ. ; 
similarity of, to epic poetry, 416; 
on the form and end of, ἐδ. 
et seqg.; definition of, ἐδ.; of 
the six parts in, 418; fable the 
soul of, 419; on the requisites 
and length of action in, 420 δέ 


499 


seg. ; real names retained in, 424; 
on the various parts of, the pro- 
logue, episode, exode, and chorus, 
428, 429; essentials for a plot, 
430 et seg.; a happy conclusion 
preferred, 432; the proper plea- 
sure to be derived from, 433; re- 
quisites of manners in, 435 et 
seg.; on complication and de- 
velopment, 443; four species of, 
443, 444 ; not to be made an epic 
system, 444; on the diction and 
sentiments of, 446; necessity 
for the wonderful, 461; merit of 
imitation in, as compared with 
the epic, 470 et seg.; reasons for 
the superiority of, 472. 

Travellers, accounts of, useful to 
legislation, 32. 

“‘Tyro”’ of Sophocles, tragedy of, 
438 et n. 


U. 


Ulysses, on the pretended insanity 
of, 422, ἢ. 

Unity, explanation of, 421, n.; of 
the fable, 422; one of the paris 
of diction, 450. 

Unjust, disposition of the, for com- 
mitting wrong, 84. 

Ὑποδύεται, note on, 13, ἢ. 

Ὑποκριτὴς, various meanings of. 
204, n. 


Υ. 


Vanity, illustration of, 129, 

Variety attended with pleasure, 77. 

Vengeance, when to be taken, 114. 

Verbs, one of the parts of diction, 
449, 

Vexatiousness, definition of, 106, 
107. 

Vice and virtue, the subject dis- 
cussed, 57 e¢ seg. 

Victory attended with pleasure, 75. 

Virtue, is honourable, 38, 57; cons 
stituents of, 58. 

--— and. vice, the objects of the 
orator, 57 et seg. 


500 


Virtues, the, a spevific good, 40; 
an object of emulation, 148. 
Vulgar, natural logic of the, 2, n. 


Ὗ. 


Want, a motive for committing 
wrong, 82. 

War and peace, questions of, 30. 

Water the best of things, 48. 

Wealth, constituents of, 35; ἃ spe- 
cific good, 41; dispositions con- 
sequent on, 157, 158. 

Will, motive of the, 71. 

Wisdom, attended with pleasure, 
78. 

Wise, the, disposed to envy, 145. 
Witnesses, one of the proofs neces- 
sary in judicial oratory, 96, 97. 
Wonderful, the, necessary in trage- 

dy and epic, 461. 


INDEX. 


Words, on the proper and different 
uses of, 209, 210, 215, 216, 456, 
457; on the beauty of, 213; on 
the invention, extension, contrac- 
tion, and changes of, 453; on the 
various kinds of, 454. 

Wronged, the, objects of fear, 123. 


X. 


Xenophanes, the orator, sayings of, 
101, 186, 190, 465. 


Y. 


Youth, on the passions and habits 
of, 149 et seg. 


Ζ. 
Zeuxis, his painting of Helen, 469, 
Me “ 


LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, 
DUKE STREET, STAMFORD STREET, 8.E., AND GREAT WINDMILL STREET, We 


AN 
ALPHABETICAL LIST 


OF BOOKS CONTAINED IN 


BOHNS 


LIBRARIES 


Detaited Catalogue, arranged according to the vartous 
Libraries, will be sent on application. 


ADDISON'S Works. With the 
Notes of Bishop Hurd, Portrait, 
and 8 Plates of Medals and Coins. 
Edited by H. G. Bohn. 6 vols. 
35. 6d. each. 


ZESCHYLUS, The Dramas of. 
Translated into English Verse by 
Anna Swanwick. 4th Edition, 
revised, 55. 


The Tragedies of. Trans- 
lated into Prose by T. A. Buckley, 
B.A. 35. 6d. 


ALLEN’S (Joseph, R. N.) Battles 
of the British Navy. Revised 
Edition, with 57 Steel Engravings. 
2 vols, 55. each. 


AMMIANUS MARCELLINUS. 
History of Rome during the 
Reigns of Constantius, Julian, 
Tovianus, Valentinian, and Valens. 
Translated by Prof. C. Ὁ. Yonge, 
M.A. 7s, 6d, 


ANDERSEN’S Danish Legends 
and Fairy Tales. Translated 
by Caroline Peachey. With 120 
Wood Engravings. 55. 


ANTONINUS (M. Aurelius), The 
- Thoughts of. Trans. literally, 


with Notes and Introduction by 
George Long, M.A. 3s. 6d. 


APOLLONIUS RHODIUS., 
‘The Argonautica.’ Translated 
by E. P. Coleridge, B.A. 5s. 


APPIAN’S Roman History. 
Translated by Horace White, 
M.A., LL.D. With Maps and 
Illustrations. 2 vols. 65. each. 


APULEIUS, The Works of 
Comprising the Golden Ass, God 
of Socrates, Florida, and Dis- 
course of Magic. 55. 


ARIOSTO’S Orlando Furioso. 
Translated into English Verse by 
W.S. Rose. With Portrait, and 24 
Steel Engravings. 2vols. 55. each. 


ARISTOPHANES’ Comedies. 
Translated by W. J. Hickie. 2 
vols. 55. each, 


ARISTOTLE’S Nicomschean 
Ethies. Translated, with Intro- 
duction and Notes, by the Vener- 
able Archdeacon Browne.  §s. 

Politics and Hconomics. 

Translated by E. Walford, M.A., 

with Introduction by Dr. Gillies, 

55. 


! 


2 An Alphabetical List of Books 


ARISTOTLE’S Metaphysics. 
Translated by the Rev. John H. 
M‘Mahon, M.A. 5s. 


—— History of Animals. Trans. 
by Richard Cresswell, M.A. 59. 


—— Organon; or, Logical Trea- 
tises, and the Introduction of 
Porphyry. Translated by the 
Rev. O. F. Owen, M.A. 2 vols. 
3s. 6d. each. 


—— Rhetoric and Poetics. 
Trans. by T. Buckley, B.A. 55. 


ARRIAN’S Anabasis of Alex- 
ander, together with the Indica. 
Translated by E. J. Chinnock, 
M.A., LL.D, With Maps and 
Plans. 5s. 


ATHENZUS. The Deipnoso- 
phists; or, the Banquet of the 
Learned. Trans. by Prof. C. D. 
Yonge, M.A. 3 vols. 55. each. 


BACON’S Moral and Historical 
Works, including the Essays, 
Apophthegms, Wisdom of the 
Ancients, New Atlantis, Henry 
VII., Henry VIII., Elizabeth, 
Henry Prince of Wales, History 
of Great Britain, Julius Cesar, 
and Augustus Cesar. Edited by 
J. Devey, M.A. 35. 6(. 


— — Novum Organum and Ad- 
vancement of Learning. Edited 
by J. Devey, M.A. 59. 


BASS’S Lexicon to the Greek 
Testament. 2s. 


BAX’S Manual of the History 
of Philosophy. for the use of 
Students. By E. Belfort Bax. 5s. 


BEAUMONT and FLETCHER, 
their finest Scenes, Lyrics, and 
other Beauties, selected from the 
whole of their works, <nd edited 
by Leigh Hunt. 3s. 6d. 


BECHSTEIN’S Cage and 
Chamber Birds, their Natural 
History, Habits, Food, Diseases, 
and Modes of Capture. Translated, 
with considerable additions on 
Structure, Migration, and Eco- 
nomy, by H.G. Adams. Together 
with SWEET BRITISH WARBLERS. 
With 43 coloured Plates and 
Woodcut Illustrations. 5s. 


BEDE’S (Venerable) Ecclesias- 
tical History of England. To- 
gether with the ANGLO-SAXON 
CHRONICLE. Edited by J. A. 
Giles, D.C.L. With Map. 55. 


BELL (Sir Charlies). The Ana- 
tomy and Philosophy of Ex- 
pression, as connected with 
the Fine Arts. By Sir Charles 
Bell, K.H. th edition, revised. 
5S. 


BERKELEY (George), Bishop 
ef Cloyne, The Works of, 
Edited by George Sampson. With 
Biographical Introduction by the 
Right Hon. A. J. Baltour, M.P. 
3 vols. 55, each. 


BION. See THEOCRITUS. 


BJORNSON’S Arne and the 
Fisher Lassie. Translated by 
W. H. Low, M.A. 3s. 6d. 


BLAIR’S Chronological Tables 
Revised and Enlarged. Compre- 
hending the Chronology and His- 
tory of the World, from the Earliest 
Times to the Russian Treaty of 
Peace, April 1856. By J. Wil- 
loughby Rosse. Double vol. 10s. 


Index of Vates. Com- 
prehending the principal Facts in 
the Chronology and History of 
the World, alphabetically ar- 
ranged; being a complete Index 
to Blair’s Chronological Tables. 
By J. W. Rosse. 2vols. 55. each. 


Contained in Bohn'’s Libraries. 3 


BLEEK, Introduction to the 
Old Testament. By Friedrich 
Bleek. Edited by Johann Bleek 
and Adolf Kamphausen. Trans- 
lated by G. H. Venables, under 
the supervision of the Rev. Canon 
Venables. 2 vols. 5s. each. 


BOETHIUS'S Consolation of 
Philosophy. King Alfred’s Anglo- 
Saxon Version of. With a literal 
English Translation on opposite 
pages, Notes, Introduction, and 
Glossary, by Rev. S. Fox, M.A. 


55, 


BOHN’S Dictionary of Poetical 
Quotations. 4th edition. 6s. 


BOHN’S Handbooks of Games. 
New edition. In 2 vols., with 
numerous Illustrations 35. 6d. 
each. 

Vol. I.—TasLe GAMEs :—Bil- 
liards, Chess, Draughts, Back- 
gammon, Dominoes, Solitaire, 
Reversi, Go-Bang, Rouge et Noir, 
Roulette, E.O., Hazard, Faro. 

Vol. II. — Carp GAMES: — 
Whist, Solo Whist, Poker, Piquet, 
Ecarté, Euchre, Bézique, Crib- 
bage, Loo, Vingt-et-un, Napoleon, 
Newmarket, Pope Joan, Specula- 
tion, &c., ἄτα. 


BOND'S A Handy Book of Rules 
and Tables for verifying Dates 
with the Christian Era, &c. Giving 
an account of the Chief Eras and 
Systems used by various Nations ; 
with the easy Methods for deter- 
mining the Corresponding Dates. 
By J. J. Bond. §s. 


BONOMI’S Nineveh and iis 
Palaces. 7 Plates and 294 Wood- 
cut Illustrations. 5s. 


BOSWELL’S Life of Jchnson, 
with the TOUR IN THE HEBRIDES 
and JOHNSONIANA. Edited by 
the Rev. A. Napier, M.A. With 
Frontispiece to each vol. 6 vols. 
35. 6d. each. 


BRAND’S Popular Antiquities 
of England, Scotland, and Ire- 
land. Arranged, revised, and 
greatly enlarged, by Sir Henry 
Ellis, K.H., F.R.S., &c., &e. 3 
vols. 55. each, 


BREMER’S (Frederika) Works. 
Translated by Mary Howitt. 4 
vols, 35. 6a. each. 


BRIDGWATER TREATISES, 
Bell (Sir Charles) on the IYand., 
With numerous Woodcuts. 55. 


Kirby on the History, Habits, 
and Instincts of Animals. 
Edited by T. Rymer Jones. 
With upwards of 100 Woodcuts. 
2 vols. 55. each. 


Kicd on the Adaptation of Bx- 
ternal Nature to the Physical 
Condition of Man. 3s, 6d. 


Chalmers on the Adaptation 
of External Nature to the 
Moral and Intellectual Con- 
stitution of Man. 55. 


BRINK (B. ten) Early English 
Literature. By Bernhard ten 
Brink. Vol. I. To Wyclif. Trans- 
lated by Horace M. Kennedy 
35. 6d. 


Vol. II. Wyclif, Chaucer, Ear- 
liest Drama Renaissance. Trans- 
lated by W. Ciarke Robinson, 
Ph.D. 35. 6d. 


Vol. III. From the Fourteenth 
Century to the Death of Surrey. 
Edited by Dr. Alois Brandl. 
Trans. by L. Dora Schmitz. 


35. 6d. 
—— Five Lectures on Shake- 


speare. Trans. by Julia Franklin. 
35. 62. 


BROWNE'S (Sir Thomas) Works 
Edited by Simon Wilkin. 3 vols, 
35. 6a. each. 


4 An Alphabetical List of Books 


BURKE’S Works. 8 vols. 35. 6d. 
each. 


I.—Vindication of Natural So- 
ciety—Essay on the Sub- 
lime and Beautiful, and 
various Political Miscel- 
lanies. 


II.—Reflections on the French 
Revolution — Letters re- 
lating to the Bristol Elec- 
tion— Speech on Fox’s 
East India Bill, &c. 


III.—Appeal from the New to the 
Old Whigs—On the Na- 
bob of Arcot’s Debts— 
The Catholic Claims, &c. 


IV.—Report on the Affairs. of 
India, and Articles of 
Charge against Warren 
Hastings. 


V.—Conclusion of the Articles οἱ 
Charge against Warren 
Hastings— Political Let- 
ters on the American War, 
on a Regicide Peace, to 
the Empress of Russia. 


VI.—Miscellaneous Speeches — 
- Letters and Fragments— 
Abridgments of English 
History, ἄς. With a 
General Index. 


VII. ἃ VIII.—Speeches on the Im- 
peachment of Warren 
Hastings; and Letters. 
With Index. 2. vols. 
35. 6a. each. 


—— Life. By Sir J. Prior. 35. 6d. 


BURNEY’S Evelina. By Frances 
Burney (Mme. D’Arblay). With 
an Introduction and Notes by 
A. R. Ellis. 45. δα. 


— Cecilia. With an Introduc- 
tion and Notes by A. R. Ellis. 
2 vols. 35. 64, each, 


BURN (R.) Ancient Rome and 
its Neighbourhood. An Illus- 
trated Handbook to the Ruinsin 
the City and the Campagna, for 
the use of Travellers. By Robert 
Burn, M.A. With numerous 
Illustrations, Maps, and Plans. 
4s. 6d. 


BURNS (Robert), Life of. By 
J. G. -Lockhart, D.C.L. A 
new and enlarged Edition. Re- 
vised by William Scott Douglas. 
35. 6d. 


BURTON'S (Robert) Anatomy of 
Melancholy. Edited by the Rev. 
A. R. Shilleto, M.A. With In- 
troduction by A. H. Bullen, and 
full Index. 3 vols. 35. 6d. each. 


BURTON (Sir R. F.) Personal 
Narrative of a Pilgrimsge to 
Al-Madinah and Meccah, By 
Captain Sir Richard F. Burton, 
K.C.M.G. With an Introduction 
by Stanley Lane-Poole, and all 
the origina! Ilustrations. 2 vols. 
3s. 6d. each. 

*,* This is the copyright edi- 
tion, containing the author’s latest 
notes. 


BUTLER’S (Bishop) Analogy οἱ 
Religion, Natural and Revealed, 
to the Constitution and Course of 
Nature; together with two Dis- 
sertations on Personal Identity and 
on the Nature of Virtue, and 
Fifteen Sermons. 35. 6d. 


BUTLER’S (Samuel) Hudibras. 
With Variorum Notes, a Bio- 
graphy, Portrait, and 28 Ilius- 
trations. 55. ; 


—— or, further Illustrated with 60 
Outline Portraits. 2 vols, 55. each. 


CAHSAR. Commentaries on the 
Gallic and Civil Wears, Trans- 


5S. 


lated by W. A. McDevitte, B.A. 


Contained in Bohn's Libraries. =i 


CAMOENS’ Lusiad ; or, the Dis- 
covery of India. An Epic Poem. 
Translated by W. J. Mickle. 5th 
Edition, revised by E. R. Hodges, 
M.C.P. 35. 6d. 


CARAFAS (The) of Maddaloni. 
Naples under Spanish Dominion. 
Translated from the German of 
Alfred de Reumont. 35. 62. 


CARLYLE’S French Revolution. 
Edited by J. Holland -Rose, 
Litt.D. Illus. 3 vols. 55. each. 


—— Sartor Resartus. With 75 
Illustrations by Edmund J. Sul- 
livan. 55. 


CARPENTER’S (Dr. W. B.) 
Zoology. Revised Edition, by 
W. S. Dallas, F.L.S. With very 
numerous Woodcuis. Vol. 1. 6s. 

[ Vol. 11. out of print. 


GARPENTER’S Mechanical 
_ Philosophy, Astronomy, and 
Eforology. 181 Woodcuts. 55. 


—— Vegetable Physiology and 
Systematic Botany. Revised 
Edition, by E. Lankester, M.D., 
&e. With very numerous Wood- 
cuts. 65. 


--- Animal Physiology. Revised 
Edition. With upwards of 300 
Woodcuts. 6s. 


CASTLE (1) Schools and 
Masters of Fence, from the 
Middle Ages to the End of the 
Eighteenth Century. By Egerton 
Castle, M.A., F.S.A. With a 
Complete Bibliography. __ Illus- 
trated with 140 Reproductions of 
Old Engravings and 6 Plates of 
Swords, showing 114 Examples. 
6s. 


CATTERMOLE’S Evenings at 
Haddon Ha'l. With 24 En- 
gravings on Steel from designs by 
Cattermole, the Letterpress by the 
Baroness de Carabella. 55. 


CATULLUS, Tibullus, and the 
Vigil of Venus. A Literal Prose 
Translation. 55. 


CELLINI (Benvenuto). Me- 
moirs of, written by Himself. 
Translated by Thomas Roscoe. 
35. 6d. 


CERVANTES’ Don Quixote de 
la Mancha. Moiteaux’s Trans- 
lation revised. 2 vols. 35. δα, 


each, 

Galatea. A Pastoral Ro- 
mance. Translated by G. W. J. 
Gyll. 35. 6d. 


—— HEixemplary Novels. Trans- 
lated by Walter K. Kelly. 35. δώ, 


CHAUCER’S Poetical Works. 
Edited by Robert Bell. Revised 
Edition, wilh a Preliminary Essay 
by Prof. W. W. Skeat, M.A. 4 
vols. 35. 6d. each. 


CHESS CONGRESS of 1862. 
A Collection of the Games played. 
Edited by J. Lowenthal. 55. 


CHEVRHEUL on Colour. Trans- 
lated from the French by Charles 
Martel. Third Edition, with 
Plates, 5s.; or with an additional 
series of 16 Plates in Colours, 
7s. 6d. : 


CHILLINGWORTH’S Religion 
of Protestants. A Safe Way to 
Salvation. 35. 6d. 


CHINA, Pictorial, Descriptive, 
and Historical. With Map and 
nearly 100 Illustrations. 5s. 


CHRONICLES OF THE CRU- 
SADES. Contemporary Narra- 
tives of the Crusade of Richard 
Coeur de Lion, by Richard of 
Devizes and Geoffrey de Vinsauf ; 
and of the Crusade at St. Louis, 
by Lord John de Joinville. 5s. 


CICHRO’S Orations. Translated 
by Prof. C. Ὁ. Yonge, M.A. 4 
vols. 55. each, 


6 An Alphabetical List of Books 


CICERO’S Letters. Translated by 
Evelyn 8. Shuckburgh. 4 vols. 
5s. each. 


——. On Oratory and Orators. 
With Letters to Quintus and 
Brutus. Translated by the Rev. 
J. S. Watson, M.A. 59. 


__. On the Nature of the Gods, 
Divination, Fate, Laws, a Re- 
public, Consulship. Translated 
by Prof. C. D. Yonge, M.A., and 
Francis Barham. 55. 


Academics, De Finibus, and 
Tusculan Questions. By Prof. 
C. Ὁ. Yonge, M.A. 5s. 


Offices; or, Moral Duties. 
Cato Major, an Essay on Old 
Age; Lelius, an Essay on Friend- 
ship; Scipio’s Dream ; Paradoxes; 
Letter to Quintus on Magistrates. 
Translated by C. R. Edmonds. 
35. 6d. 


CORNELIUS NEPOS.-—See 
JUSTIN. 


CLARE’S (Hugh) Introduction 
to Heraldry. 18th Edition, Re- 
vised and Enlarged by J. R. 
Planché, Rouge Croix. With 
nearly 1000 Illustrations. 5s. Or 
with the Illustrations Coloured, 
155. 


CLASSIC TALES, containing 
Rasselas, Vicar of Wakefield, 
Gulliver’s Travels, and The Senti- 
mental Journey. 35. 6a. 


COLERIDGE’S (S. T.) Friend. 
A Series of Essays on Morals, 
Politics, and Religion. 35. 6d. 


-~—— Aids to Refiection, and the 
CONFESSIONS OF AN INQUIRING 
SPIRIT, to which are added the 
ESSAYS ON FAITH and the Boox 
OF COMMON PRAYER, 3s. 6d. 


—— Lectures and Notes on 
Shakespeare and other English 
Posts. Edited by Τὶ Ashe. 3s. 6d. 


COLERIDGE’S Biographia Lite- 
raria; together with Two Lay 
Sermons. 35. 6d. 


-- . Trable-Talk and Omniana. 
Edited by T. Ashe, B.A. 35. 6d. 


.-- Miscellanies, A’sthetic and 
Literary; to which is added, 
THE THEORY oF Lirr. Col- 
lected and arranged by T. Ashe, 
B.A. 35. δα. 


COMTE’S Positive Philosophy. 
Translated and condensed by 
Harriet Martineau. With Intro- 
duction by Frederic Harrison. 
3 vols. 55. each, 


COMTE’S Philosophy of the 
Sciences, being an Exposition of 
the Principles of the Cours de 
Philosophie Positive. By ἃ. H. 
Lewes. 55. 


CONDE'S History of the Do 
minion of the Arabs in Spain, 
Translated by Mrs. Foster. 3 
vols. 35. 6d. each. 


COOPER’S Biographical Dic- 
tionary. Containing Concise 
Notices (upwards of 15,000) of 
Eminent Persons of all Ages and 
Countries. By Thompson Cooper, 
F,S.A.- With a Supplement, 
bringing the work down to 1883. 
2vols. 55. each, 


COXE’S Memoirs of the Duke of 
Marlborough. With his original 


Correspondence. By W. Coxe, 
M.A., F.R.S. Revised edition 
by John Wade. 3 vols. 35. 6d. 
each. 


*.* An Atlas of the plans of 
Marlborough’s campaigns, 4to. 
10s. 6d, 


—— History of the House of 
Austria (1218-1792). With a 
Continuation from the Accession 
of Francis I. to the Revolution of 
1848. 4 vols, 35. 6¢. each, 


Contained in Bohn’s Libraries. 


CRAIK’S(G.L.) Pursuit of Know- 
ledge under Difficulties. Illus- 
trated by Anecdotes and Memoirs. 
Revised edition, with numerous 
Woodcut Portraits and Plates. 55. 


CRUIKSHANK’S Punch and 
Judy. The Dialogue of the 
Puppet Show ; an Account of its 
Origin, &c. With 24 Illustra- 
tions, and Coloured Plates, de- 
signed-and engraved by G. Cruik- 
shank, 55. 


CUNNINGHAWM’S Lives of the 
Most Eminent British Painters. 
A New Edition, with Notes and 

’ Sixteen fresh Lives. By Mrs. 
Heaion. 3 vols. 35. 6d. each. 


DANTE. Divine Comedy. Trans- 
lated by the Rev. H. F. Cary, 
M.A. 3s. 6d. 


Translated into English Verse 
by I. C. Wright, M.A. 3rd Edi- 
tion, revised. With Portrait, and 
34 Illustrations on Steel, after 
Flaxman, 


DANTE, The Inferno. A Literal 
Prose Translation, with the Text 
of the Original printed onthe same 
page. By John A. Carlyle, M.D. 


Ss. 


—— The Purgatorio. A Literad 
Prose Translation, with the Text 
printed on the same page. By 
W.S. Dugdale. 55. 


DE COMMINES (Philip), Me- 
moirs of. Containing the Histories 
of Louis XI. and Charles VIIL., 
Kings of France, and Charles 
the Bold, Duke of Burgundy. 
Together with the Scandalous 
Chronicle, or Secret History of 
Louis XI., by Jean de Troyes, 
Translated by Andrew R. Scoble. 
With Portraits. 2 vols. 35. 6d. 
each, 


DEFOEH’S Novels and Miscel- 
laneous Works. With Prefaces 
and Notes, including those attri- 
buted to Sir W. Sco:t. 7 vols. 
35. Gd. each. 


I.—Captain Singleton, and 
Colonel Jack. 
II.—Memoirs of a Cayalier, 
Captain Carleton, 
Dickory Cronke, &c. 


III.—Moll Flanders, and the 
History of the Devil. 


IV.— Roxana, and Life of Mrs, ‘ 
Christian Davies. 


V.—History of the Great Plague 
of London, 1665 ; "Phe 
Storm (1703) ; and the 
True-born Englishman. 


VI.—Duncan Campbell, New 
Voyage round the 
World, and Political 
Tracts. 


VII,—Robinson Crusoe. 


DEMMIN’S History of Arms 
and Armour, from the Earliest 
Period. By Auguste Demmin. 
Translated by C. C. Black, M.A, 
With nearly 2000 Illustrations. 
75. 6d. 


DEMOSTHENES’ Orations. 

Translated by C. Rann Kennedy. 

vols. Vol. I., 3s. 6a.3 Vols. 
I.-V., 55. each. 


DE STAEL’S Corinne or Italy. 
By Madame de Staél. Trans- 
lated by Emily Baldwin and 
Paulina Driver. 35. 6d. 


DEVEY’S Logic, or the Science 
of Inference. A Popular Manual. 
By J. Devey. 5s. 


DICTIONARY of Latin and 
Greek Quotations; including 
Proverbs, Maxims, Mottoes, Law 
Terms and Phrases, Withall the 


8 An Alphabetical List of Books 


Quantities marked, and English 
Translations. With Index Ver- 
borum (622 pages). 55. 


DICTIONARY of Obsolete and 
Provincial English. Compiled 
by Thomas Wright, M.A., F.S.A., 
ἅς. 2vols. 55. each, 


DIDRON’S Christian Icono- 
graphy: a History of Christian 
Art in the Middle Ages. Trans- 
lated by E. J. Millington and 
completed by Margaret Stokes. 
With 240 Illustrations. 2 vols. 
55. each. 


DIOGENES LAERTIUS. Live 
and Opinions of the Ancient 
Philosophers. Translated by 
Prof. C. Ὁ. Yonge, M.A. 5s. 


DOBREE’S Adversaria. Edited 
by the late Prof. Wagner, 2 vols. 
55. each. 


DODD’S Epigrammatists. A 
Selection from the Epigrammatic 
Literature of Ancient, Medizval, 
and Modern Times. By the Rev. 
Henry Philip Dodd, M.A. Ox- 
ford. 2nd Edition, revised and 
enlarged. 6s. 


DONALDSON’S The Theatre of 
the Greeks. A Treatise on the 
History and Exhibition of the 
Greek Drama. With numerous 
Ijiustrations and 3 Plans. By John 
William Donaldson, D.D. 55. 


DRAPER’S History of the 
Intellectual Development of 
Europe. By John William Draper, 
M.D., LL.D. 2 vols. 5s. each. 


DUNLOP’S History of Fiction. 
A new Edition. Revised by 
Henry Wilson. 2 vols. 55. each. 


DYER (Dr. T.H.), Pompeii: its 
Buildings and Antiquities. By 
T.H. Dyer, LL.D. With nearly 


300 Wood Engravings, a large 
Map, and a Plan of the Forum, 
7s. 6d. 


—— The City of Rome: its History 
and Monuments. With Illustra- 
tions, 55. 


DYER (T. F. T.) British Popular 
Customs, Present and Past. 
An Account of the various Games 
and Customs associated with Dif- 
ferent Days of the Year in the 
British Isles, arranged according 
to the Calendar. By the Rev, 
T. F. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. ὅς, 


EBERS’ Egyptian Princess. An 


Historical Novel. By George 
Ebers. . Translated by E. 5. 
Buchheim, 3s. 6d. 


EDGEWORTH’S§ Siories for 
Children. With 8 Illustrations 
by L. Speed. 35. 6d. 


ELZE’S William Shakespeare. 
—See SHAKESPEARE, 


EMERSON’S Works. 65 vols. 
35. 6d. each. 
I.—Essays and Representative 
Men. 
Ul.—English Traits, Nature, and 
Conduct of Life. 
III.—Society and Solitude—Letters 
and Social Aims — Ad- 
dresses. 
VI.—Miscellaneous Pieces. 
V.— Poems. 


ENNEMOSER’S History of 
Magic. ‘Translated by William 
Howitt. 2 vols. 55. each. 


EPICTETUS, The Discourses of. 
With the ENCHEIRIDION and 
Fragments. Translated by George 
Long, M.A. 55. : 


EURIPIDES. <A New Literal 
Translation in Prose. By E P. 
Coleridge, M.A. 2 vols. 5s.each. — 


Contained in Bohn’s Libraries. 9 


EUTROPIUS.—Scee Justin. 


EUSEBLUS PAMPHILUS, 
Fieclesiastical History of. Trans- 
lated by Rev.C. F.Cruse,M.A. 5s. 


EVELYN’S Diary and Corre- 
spondsendence. Edited from the 
Original MSS. by W. Bray, 
F.A.S. With 45 engravings. 4 
vols. 55. each. 


FAIRHOLT’S Costume in Eng- 
land. A History of Dress to the 
end of the Eighteenth Century. 
3rd Edition, revised, by Viscount 
Dillon, V.P.S.A. Illustrated with 
above 700 Engravings. 2 vols. 
55. each. 


FIELDING’S Adventures of 
Joseph Andrewsand his Friend 
Mr. Abraham Adams. With 
Cruikshank’s Illustrations. 3s. 6d. 


—— History of Tom Jones, a 
Foundling. With Cruikshank’s 
Illustrations. 2 vols. 3s. 6d. each. 


— Amelia. With Cruikshank’s 
Illustrations. ὅς, 


FLAXMAN’S Lectures on Sculp- 
ture. By John Flaxman, R.A. 
With Portrait and 53 Plates. 6s. 


FOSTER’S (John) Life and Cor- 
respondence. LEdited by J. E. 
Ryland. 2vols. 3s. 6d. each. 


—— Oritical Essays. Edited by 
J. E. Ryland. 2vols. 35. 6d. 
each, 


Essays: on Decision of Cnha- 
racter; on a Man’s writing Me- 
moirs of Himself; on the epithet 
Romantic; on the aversion of 
Men of Taste to Evangelical Re- 
ligion. 35. 6d, 


—— Essays on the Evils of Popular 
Ignorance ; to which is added, a 
Discourse on the Propagation of 
Christianity in India. 35, 6d. 


FOSTER’S Essays on the Im- 
provement of Time. With NOTES 
OF SERMONS and other Pieces. 
35. θα. 


GASPARY’S History of Italian 


Literature. Translated by Her- 
man Oelsner, M.A., Ph.D. 
Vol. I. 35. 6d. 


GEOFFREY OF MONMOUTH, 
Chronicle of.—See Old English 
Chronicles. 


GESTA ROMANORUM, or En- 
tertaining Moral Stories invented 
by the Monks. Translated by the 

“Rev. Charles Swan. Revised 
Edition, by Wynnard Hooper, 
B.A. 55. 


GILDAS, Chronicles of,—See Old 
English Chronicles. 


GIBBON’S Decline and Fali of 
the Roman Empire. Complete 
and Unabridged, with Variorum 
Notes. Edited by an English 
Churchman. With 2 Maps and 
Portrait. 7 vols. 35. 6d. each, 


GILBART’S History, Principles, 
and Practice of Banking. By 
the late J. W. Gilbart, F.R.S. ° 
New Edition, revised by A. 8. 
Michie. 2 vols. 10s. 


GIL BLAS, The Adventures of, 
Translated from the French of 
Lesage by Smollett. With 24 
Engraviugs on Steel, after Smirke, 
and 10 Etchings by George Cruik- 
shank. 65, 


GIRALDUS CAMBRENSIS’ 
Historical Works. Translated 
by Th. Forester, M.A., and Sir 
R. Colt Hoare. Revised Edition, 
Edited by Thomas Wright, M.A., 
F.S:A. 55. 


GOETHE’S Faust. Part I. Ger- 
man Text with Hayward’s Prose 
Translation and Notes. Revised 
by Ο, A. Buchheim, Ph.D. ἔς, 


10 An Alphabetical List of Books 


GOETHE’S Works. Translated 
into English by various hands. 


14 vols. 35. 6d. each. 
I. and II.—Autobiography and 
Annals. 
III.— Faust. Two Parts, com- 
plete. (Swanwick.) 


IV.—Novels and Tales. 
V.—Wilhelm Meister’s Appren- 
ticeship. 
ViI.—Conversations with Ecker- 
mann and Soret. 
VIII.—Dramatic Works. 
IX.—Wilhelm Meister’s Travels. 
X.—Tour in Italy, and Second 
Residence in Rome. 
XI.—Miscellaneous Travels. 
XII.—Early and Miscellaneous 
Letters. 
XIV.—Reineke Fox, West-Eastern 
Divan and Achilleid. 


GOLDSMITH’S Works. A new 
Edition, by J. W. M. Gibbs. καὶ 
vols. 35. δα. each. 


GRAMMONT’S Memoirs of the 
Court of Charles II. Edited by 
Sir Walter Scott. Together with 
the BoscoBEL TRACTs, including 
two not before published, &c. 
New Edition. 5s. 


GRAY’S Letters. Including the 
Correspondence of Gray and 
Mason. Edited by the Rev. 
D. C. Tovey, M.A. Vols. I. 
and II. 3s. 6¢. each. 


GREEK ANTHOLOGY. Trans- 
lated by George Burges, M.A. 5s. 


GREEK ROMANCES of Helio- 
dorus, Longus, and Achilles 
Tatius—viz., The Adventures of 
Theagenes & Chariclea ; Amours 
of Daphnis and Chloe ; and Loves 
of Clitopho and Leucippe. Trans- 
lated by Rev. R. Smith, M.A. 


5S. 


GREGORY’S Letters on the 
Evidences, Doctrines, & Duties 
of the Christian Religion. By 
Dr. Olinthus Gregory. 35. 6a. 


GREENE, MARLOWE, and 
BEN JONSON. Poems of. 
Edited by Robert Bell. 35. 6d. 


GRIMWM’S TALES. With the 
Notes ofthe Original. Translated 
by Mrs. A. Hunt. With Intro- 
duction by Andrew Lang, M.A. 
2vols. 35. 6d. each. 


Gammer Grethel; or, Ger- 
man Fairy Tales and Popular 
Stories. Containing 42 Fairy 
Tales. Trans. by Edgar Taylor. 
With numerous Woodcuts after 
George Cruikshank and Ludwig 
Grimm. 35. 6d, 


GROSSI’S Marco Visconti, 
Translated by A. F. D. The 
Ballads rendered into English 
Verse by C. M, P. 35. 6a. 


GUIZOT’S History of the 
English Revolution of 1640. 
From the Accession of Charles 
I. to his Death. Translated by 
William Hazlitt. 35. 6d. 


—— History of Civilisation, from 
the Fall of the Roman Empire to 
the French Revolution. Trans- 
lated by William Hazlitt. 3 vols. 
35. 62. each. 


HALL’S (Rev. Robert) Miscel- 
laneous Works and Remains. 
35. 6a. 


HAMPTON CCURT: A Short 
History of the Manor and 
Palace. By Ernest Law, B.A. 
With numerous Illustrations. ὅς, 


HARDWICK’S History of the 
Articles of Religion. By the late 
C. Hardwick. Revised by the 
Rev, Francis Procter, M.A. ὅς. 


Contained in Bohn’s Libraries. il 


altel 


HAUFF’S Tales. The Caravan— 
The Sheik of Alexandria— The 
Ton in the Spessart. Trans. from 
the German by S. Mendel. 3s. 6a. 


HAWTHORNE’S Tales. 
35. 6d. each. 
I.—Twice-told Tales, and the 
Snow Image. 
II.— Scarlet Letter,and the House 
with the Seven Gables. 
III.—Transformation [The Marble 
Faun], and Blithedale Ro- 
mance. 
IV.—Mosses from an Old Manse. 


HAZLITT’S Table-taik, Essays 
on Men and Manners. By W. 
Hazlitt. 35. 6d. 

—— Lectures on the Literature 
of the Age of Elizabeth and on 
Characters of Shakespeare’s Plays. 
45. 62. 

—— Lectures on the English 
Poets, and on the English Comic 
Writers. 35. 62. 

—— The Plain Speaker. Opinions 
on Books, Men, and Things. 35.6¢. 

—— Reund Takle. 35. 6d. 


Sketehes aud Essays. 
- 3s. Ed. 

- Tho Spirit of the Age; or, 
Contemporary Portraits. Edited 
by W. Carew Hazlitt. 35. 6d. 


— View of the English Stage. 


Edited by W. Spencer Jackson. 
35. 6a. 


HEATON’S Concise History of 
Painting. New Edition, revised 
by Cosmo Monkhouse. 5s. 


HEGEL'S Lectures on the Philo- 
sophy of History. Translated by 
J. Sibree, M.A. 


HEINE’S Poems, Complete 
Translated by Edgar A. Bowring, 
C.B. 35. 6d. 

—— Travel-Pictures, including the 
Tour in the Harz, Norderney, and 


4 vols. 


Book of Ideas, together with the 
Romantic School. Translated by 
Francis Storr. A New Edition, 
revised throughout. With Appen- 
dices and Maps. 35. 6d. 


HELP’S Life of Christopher 
Columbus, the Discoverer of 
America. By Sir Arthur Helps, 
K.C.B. 3s. 6d. 


—— Life of Hernando Cortes, 
and the Conquest of Mexico. 2 
vols. 35. 6d. each. 


—— Life of Pizarro. 35. 6d. 


—— Life of Las Casas the Apostle 
of the Indies. 35. 6d. 


HENDERSON (E.) Select His- 
torical Documents ofthe Middle 
Ages, including the most famous 
Charters relating to England, the 
Empire, the Church, &c., from ~ 
the 6th to the 14th Centuries. 
Translated from the Latin and 
edited by Ernest F. Henderson, 
A.B., A.M., Ph.D. 5s. 


HENFREY’S Guide to English 
Coins, from the Conquest to the 
present time. New and revised 
Edition by C. F. Keary, M.A, 
F,S.A. 6s. 


HENRY OF HUNTINGDON’S 
History of the Exglish. Trans- 
lated by T. Forester, M.A. ὅς. 


HENRY’S (Matthew) Exposition 
of the Book ofthe Psalms. 5s. 


HELIODORUS. Theagenes and 
Chariclea. — See GREEK Ro- 
MANCES. 


HERODOTUS. Translated by the 
Rev. Henry Cary, M.A. 35. 6d. 

Notes on, Original and Se- 
lected from the best Commenta- 
tors. By Ὁ. W. Turner, M.A. 
With Coloured Map.  §s. 

—— Analysis and Summary of 
By J. T. Wheeler. 55. 


12 An Alphabetical List of Books 


HESIOD, CALLIMACHUS, and 


THEOGNIS. Translated by the 


Rev. J. Banks, M.A, 55. 


HOFFMANN’S (H, T. W.} The 
Serapion Brethren. Translated 
from the German by Lt.-Col. Alex. 
Ewing. 2vols. 35. 6d. each. 


HOLBEIN’S Dance of Death 
and. Bible Cuts. Upwards of 150 
Subjects, engraved in facsimile, 
with Introduction and Descrip- 
tions by Francis Douce and Dr. 
Thomas Frognall Dibden. ὅς, 


HOMER’S Iliad. Translated into 
English Prose by T. A. Buckley, 
B.A. 55. 

—— Odyzsey. Hymns, Epigrams, 
and Battle of the Frogs and Mice. 
Translated into English Prose by 
T. A. Buckley, B.A. 5s. 


—— See also POPE. 


HOOPER’S (G.) Waterloo: The 
BRownfall of the First Napo- 
leon: a History of the Campaign 
of 1815. By George Hooper. 
With Maps and Plans. 35. 6d. 


—— The Campaign of Sedan: 
The Downfall of the Second Em- 
pire, August-September, 1870. 
With General Map and Six Plans 
of Battle. 35. 6d. 


HORASE. A new literal Prose 
tianslation, byA. Namilton Bryce, 
LL.D. 35. 64. 


HUGO’S (Victor) Dramatic 
Works. Hernani—Ruy Blas— 
The King’s Diversion. Translated 
by Mrs. Newton Crosland and 
F. L. Slous. 35. 6d. 

Poems, chiefly Lyrical. Trans- 
lated by various Writers, now first 
collected by J. H. L. Williams. 

3s. 6d. 


HUMBOLDT’S Cosmos. Trans- 
lated by E. C. Otté, B. H. Paul, 
and W. 5. Dallas, F.L.S. 5 vols. 
3s. 6d. each, excepting Vol. V. 55. 


HUMBOLDT’S Personal Narra- 
tive of his Travels to the Equi- 
noctial Regions of America during 
the years 7799-1804. Translated 
by T. Ross. 3 vols. §5. each, 


—— Views of Nature. Translated 
by E. C, Otté and -H. G. Hohn. 
55. 


HUMPHREYS’ Coin Collector’s 
Manual. By H. N. Humphreys. 
with upwards of 140 Ilustrations 
on Wood and Steel. 2vols. 5s. 
each. 


HUNGARY: its History and Re- 
volution, together with a copious 
Memoir of Kossuth. 35. 6d. 


HUTCHINSON (Colonel). Me- 
moirs of the Life of. By his 
Widow, Lucy: together with her 
Autobiography, and an Account 
of the Siege of Lathom House. 
25. 6d. 


HUNT'S Poetry of Science. By 
Richard Hunt. 3rd Edition, re- 
vised and enlarged. 5s. 


INGULPH’H Chronicles of the 
Abbey of Groyland, with the 
CONTINUATION by Peter of Blois 
and other Writers. Translated by 
li. Τί Riley, M.A. 5s. 


IRVING’S (Washington) Cora. 
plete Works. 15 vols. With Por- © 
traits, &c, 35. 6d. each, 

I.-—Salmagundi, Knicker- 
bocker’s History of New 
York. 


II.—The Sketch-Book, and the 
Life of Oliver Goldsmith. 
II!I.--Bracebridge Hall, Abbots- 
ford and Newstead Abbey. 
IV.—The Alhambra, Tales of a 
Traveller. 
V.--Chronicle of the Conquest 
of Granada, Legends of 
the Conquest of Spain. 


Contained 1n Bohn’s Librartes. 13 


---------- 


IRVING’s(WASHINGTON) ΟΟΜΡΙΕΤΕ 
WORKS continued. 

VI. ἃ VII.—Life and Voyages of 
Columbus, together with 
the Voyages of his Com- 

nions. 

VIlI.—Astoria, A Tour on the 
Prairies. 

1X.—Life of Mahomet, Livesof the 
Successors of Mahomet. 
X.—Adventures of Captain Bon- 
neville, U.S.A., Wolfert’s 
Roost. 
XI.—Biographies and Miscella- 
neous Papers. 

XI1.-XV.—Life of George Wash- 

ington. 4 vols. 


— Life and Letters. By his 
Nephew, Pierre E.Irving. 2 vols. 
35. 6d. each, 


ISOCRATES, The Orations of. 
Translated by J. H. Freese, M.A. 
Vol. I. 5s. 


JAMES’S (G. Ῥ, R.) Life of 
Richard Coeur de Lion. 2 vols. 
35. 62, each, 


JAMESON’S (Mrs.) Shake- 
speare’s Heroines. Character- 
istics of Women: Moral, Poetical, 
and Historical. By Mrs. Jameson. 
35, 6d. 


JESSH’S (B.) Aneedotes of Dogs 
With 40 Woodcuts and 34 Steel 
Engravings. 55. 


JESSE’S (J. H.) Memoirs of the 
Court of England during the 
Reign of the Stuarts, including 
the Protectorate. 3 vols. With 
42 Portraits. 5s. each. 

——- Memoirs of the Pretenders 
and their Adherents. With 6 
Portraits. 55. 


JOHNSON’S Lives of the Poets. 
Edited by Mrs. Alexander Napier, 
with Introduction by Professor 
Hales. 3 vols. 35. 6, each. 


JOSEPHUS (Flavius), The Works 
of. Whiston’s Translation, re- 
vised by Rev. A. R. Shilleto, M.A 
With Topographical and Geo. 
graphical Notes by Colonel Sir 
σι W. Wilsen, K.C.B. καὶ vols. 
35. 6d. each. 


JOYCE'S Scientific Dialogues. 
With numerous Woodcuts. 5s. 


JUKES-BROWNE (A. J.), The 
Building of the British Isles: 
a Study in Gecgraphical Evolu- 
tion. Illustrated by numerous 
Mapsand Woodcuts. 2nd Edition, 
revised, 75. 6d. 


JULIAN, the Emperor. Contain- 
ing Gregory Nazianzen’s Two In- 
vectives and Libanus’ Monody, 
with Julian’s extant Theosophical 
Works. Translated by C. W. 
King, M.A. 5s. 


JUNIUS’S Letters. With all the 
Notes of Woodfall’s Edition, and 
important Additions. 2 vols. 
35. 6d. each. 


JUSTIN. CORNELIUS NEPOS, 
and HUTHROPIUS. Translated 
by the Rev. J. S.. Watson, M.A. 


55. 


JUVENAL, PERSIUS, SUL- 
PICIA and LUCILIUS. Trans- 
lated by L. Evans, M.A. 55. 


KANT’S Critique of Pure Reason. 
Translated by J. M. D. Meikle- 
john. 5s. 

—— Prolegomena and Meia- 
phyzical Foundationsof Natural 
Science. Translated by FE. Belfort Ὁ 
Bax. 55. 


KEIGHTLEY’S (Thomas) My- 
thology of Ancient Greece and 
Italy. 4th Edition, revised by 
Leonard Schmitz, Ph.D., LL.D, 
With 12 Plates from the Antique. 


BS. 


4 An Alphabetical List of Books 


KEIGHTLEY’S Fairy Mytho- 
logy, illustrative of the Romance 
and Superstition of Various Coun- 
tries. Revised Edition, with 
Frontispiece by Cruikshank. 55. 


LA FONTAINE’S Fables. Trans- 
lated into English Verse by Elizur 
Wright. New Edition, with Notes 
by J. ὟΝ. M. Gibbs. 35. δα. 


LAMARTINE’S History of the 
Girondists. Translated by H.T. 
Ryde. 3 vols. 35. 6d. each. 


—— History of the Restoration 
of Monarchy in France (a Sequel 
to the History of the Girondists). 
4vols. 35. 6d. each. 


—— History of the French Re- 
volution of 1848. 35. 6d. 


LAMDB’S (Charles) Essays of Elia 
and Eliana. Complete Edition. 
35. 6d. 


—— Specimens of English Dra- 
matic Poets of the Time of 
Elizabeth. 35. 6d. 


— Memorlals and Letters of 
Charles Lamb. By Serjeant 
Talfourd. New Edition, revised, 
by W. Carew Hazlitt. 2 vols. 
35. 6d. each. 


— Tales from Shakespeare 
With Illustrations by Byam Shaw. 
35. 6d. 


LANE’S Arabian Nights’ Enter- 
tainments. Edited by Stanley 
Lane-Poole, M.A., Litt.D. 4 
vols. 35. 6d. each. 


LANZI’S History of Painting in 
Italy, from the Period of the 
Revival of the Fine Arts to the 
End of the Eighteenth Century, 
Translated by Thomas Roscoe. 
3 vols. 35. 6a. each, 


LAPPENBERG’S History of 
England under the Anglo- 
Saxon Kings. Translated by 
B. Thorpe, F.S.A. New edition, 
revised by BE. C. Otté 2 vols. 
35. 6d. each. 


LECTURES ON PAINTING, 
by Barry, Opie, Fuseli. Edited 
by R. Wornum. §s. 


LEONARDO DA VINGI’S 
Treatise on Painting. Trans- 
lated by J. F. Rigaud, R.A., 
With a Life of Leonardo by John 
William Brown. With numerous 
Plates. 55. 


LEPSIUS’S Letters from Egypt, 
Ethiopia, and the Peninsula of 
Sinai. Translated by L. and 
J. B. Horner. With Maps. 5s. 


LESSING’S Dramatic Works, 
Complete. Edited by Ernest Beli, 
M.A. With Memoir of Lessing 
by Helen Zimmern. 2 vols. 
35. 6d. each. 


—— Laokoon, Dramatic Motes, 
and the Representation of 
Deaih by the Ancients. Trans- 
lated by E. C. Beasley and Helen 
Zimmer. Edited by Edward 
Bell, M.A. With a Frontisniece 
of the Laokoon group. 3s. 6d. 


LILLY’S Introduction to Astro- 
logy. With a GRAMMAR oF 
ASTROLOGY and Tables for Cal- 
culating Nativities, by Zadkiel. 55. 


LIVY’S History of Rome. Trans- 
lated by Dr. Spillan, C. Edmonds, 
and others. 4 vols. 55. each. 


LOCKE’S Philosophical Works. 
Edited by J. A. St. John, 2 vols, 
35. Od. each. 

Life and Letters: 

King. 35. 6d. 


LOCKHART (J. G.)—Sce Burns. 


By Lord 


Contained in Bohn’s Libraries. 15 


LODGE’S Portraits of Illustrious 
Personages of Great Britain, 
with Biographical and Historical 
Memoirs. 240 Portraits engraved 
on Steel, with the respective Bio- 
graphies unabridged. 8 vols. 55. 
each. 

LONGFELLOW’S Prose 
Works. With 16 full-page Wood 
Engravings. §s. 

LOUDON’S (Mrs.) Natural 
History. Revised edition, by 
W. S. Dallas, F.L.S. With 
numerous Woodcut Illus. 5s. 

LOWNDES’ Bibliographer’s 
Manual of English Literature. 
Enlarged Edition. By H. G. 
Bohn. 6 vols. cloth, 5s. each. 
Or 4 vols. half morocco, 2/. 25. 

LONGUS. Daphnis and Chloe. 
—See GREEK ROMANCES. 


LUCAN’S Pharsalia. Translated 
by Η. T. Riley, M.A. 5s. 

LUCIAN’S Dialogues of the 
Gods, of the Sea Gods, and 
of the Dead. Translated by 
Howard Williams, M.A. 5s. 


LUCRETI@S. Translated by the 
Rev. J. S. Watson, M.A. 5s. 
LUTHER’S Table-Talk. Trans- 
lated and’ Edited by William 
Hazlitt. 35. 6d. 

— Autobiography. — Sz 
MICHELET. 

MACHIAVELLIS History of 
Florence, together with the 
Prince, Savonarola, various His- 
torical Tracts, and a Memoir of 
Machiavelli. 35. 6d. 

MALLET’S Northern Antiqui- 
ties, or an Historical Account of 
the Manners, Customs, Religions 
and Laws, Maritime Expeditions 
and Discoveries, Language and 
Literature, of the Ancient Scandi- 
navians. Translated by Bishop 
Percy. Revised and Enlarged 
Edition, with a Translation of the 
Prosk EDDA, by J. A. Black- 
well. 5s. 


MANTELL’S (Dr.) Petrifactions 
and their Teachings. With nu- 
merous illustrative Woodcuts. 6s. 


——- Wonders of Geology. 8th 
Edition, revised by T. Rupert 
Jones, F.G.S. With. a coloured 
Geological Map of England, 
Plates, and upwards of 200 
Woodcuts. 2 vols. 75. 6d. each. 


MANZONI. The Betrothed: 
being a Translation of ‘I Pro- 
messi Sposi.’ By Alessandro 
Manzoni. With numerous Wood- 
cuts. §5. 


MARCO POLO’S Travels; the 
Translation of Marsden revised 
by T. Wright, M.A., F.S.A. 55. 


MARRYAT’S (Capt. R.N.) 
Masterman Ready. With 93 
Woodcuts. 35. 6d. 


—— Mission; or, Scenes in Africa. | 
Illustrated by Gilbert and Dalziel. 
35. 6d. 


—— Pirate and Three Cutters. 
With 8 Steel Engravings, from 
Drawings by Clarkson Stanfield, 
R.A. 35. δα. 


—— Privateersman. 
ings on Steel. 35. 6a 


Settlers In Canada. τὸ En- 
gravings by Gilbert and Dalziel. 
35. θα. 


Poor Jack. With 16 Illus- 
trations after Clarkson Stansfield, 
R.A. 35. 6d. 


Peter Simple. 
page Illustrations. 


8 Engrav- 


With 8 full- 
35. 6d. 


Midshipman Easy. With 8 
full-page Illustrations. 35. 6a. 


MARTIAL’S Epigrams, complete. 
Translated into Prose, each ac- 
companied by one or more Verse 
Translations selected from the 
Works of English Poets, and 
other sources. 75. 64," 


16 An Alphabetical List of Books 


MARTINEAU’S (Harriet) His- 
tory of England, from 1800- 
1815. 35. 6d. 


—— History of the Thirty Years’ 
Peace, A.D. 1815-46. 4 vols. 
3s. 6d. each. 


See Comte’s Positive Philosophy, 


MATTHEW PARIS'S English 
History, from the Year 1235 to 
1273. Translated by Rev. J. A. 
Giles, D.C.L. 3 vols. 55. each. 


MATTHEW OF WESTMIN- 
STER’S Flowers of History, 
from the beginning of the World 
to A.D. 1307. Translated by Ὁ. Ὁ. 
Yonge, M.A. 2 vols. 55. each. 


MAXWELL’S Victories of Wel- 
ington and the British Armies. 
Frontispiece and § Portraits. 5s. 


MENZEL’S History of Germany, 
from the Earliest Period to 1842. 
3 vols. 35. 6a. each. 


MICHAEL ANGELO AND 
RAPHAEL, their Lives and 
Works. By Duppa aud Quatre- 
mere de Quincy. With Portraits, 
and Engravings on Steel. 55. 


MICHELET’S Luther’s Auto- 
biography. Trans. by William 
Hazlitt. With an Appendix (110 
pages) of Notes. 35. 6d. 


—— History of the French Revo- 
lution from its earliest indications 
to the flight of the King in 1791. 
35. Od. 


MIGNET’S History of theFrench 
Revolution, from 1789 to 1814. 
35. 6d. 


MILL (J. S.). Early Essays by 
John Stuart Mill. Collected from 
various sources by]. ἮΝ. M. Gibbs. 
35. 6d. 

MILLER (Professor), History 
Philosophically Illustrated,from 
the Fall of the Roman Empire to 
the French Revolution. 4 vols. 
35. 6d. each, 


MILTON’S Prose Works. Edited 
by J. A. St. John. καὶ vols. 3s. 6d, 
each, 


Poetical Works, with a Me- 
moir and Critical Remarks by 
James Montgomery, an Index to 
Paradise Lost, Todd’s Verbal Index 
to all the Poems, and a Selection 
of Explanatory Notes by Henry 
G. Bohn. Illustrated with 120 
Wood Engravings from Drawings 
by ἊΣ Harvey. 2 vols. 35. 6d. 
each, 


MITFORD’S (Miss) Our Village 
Sketches of Rural Character and 
Scenery. With 2 Engravings on 
Steel. 2vols. 35. 6d. each. 


MOLIERE’S Dramatic Works. 
A new Translation in English 
Prose, by C. H. Wall. 3 vols. 
35. 6a. each. 


MONTAGU. The Letters and 
Works of Lady Mary Wortley 
Montagu. Edited by her great- 
grandson, Lord Wharncliffe’s Edi- 
tion, and revised by W. Moy 
Thomas. New Edition, revised, 
with 5 Portraits. 2 vols. 55. each. 


MONTAIGNE’S Essays. Cotton’s 
Translation, revised by W. (Ὁ. 
Hazlitt. New Edition. 3 vols. 
35. 6d. each, 


MONTESQUIEU’S Spirit ot 
Laws. New Edition, revised and 
corrected. By J. V. Pritchard, 
A.M. 2vols. 35. 6d. each. 


MORPEHY’S Games of Chess. 
Being the Matches and best Games 
played by theAmerican Champion, 
with Explanatory and Analytical 
Notes by J. Lowenthal. ὅς. 


MOTLEY (J. L.). The Rise of 
the Dutch Republic. A History. 
By John Lothrop Motley. New 
Edition, with Biographical Intro- . 
duction by Moncure D. Conway, 
3 vols. 35. 6d. each, 


Feo 4 2 ee τὰς 
ge id atin, 


_ Contained in Bohn’s Librarves. 17 


MUDIE’S British Birds; or, His- 
tory of the Feathered Tribes of the 
British Islands. Revised by W. 
C. L. Martin. With 52 Figures 
of Birds and 7 Coloured Plates of 
Eggs, 2 vols. 


NEANDER (Dr. A.). History 
of the Christian Religion and 
Church. Trans. from the German 
by J. Torrey. tovols. 35.6d. each. 


Life of Jesus Christ. Trans- 
lated by J. McClintock and (, 


Blumenthal. 35. 6d. 
—— History of the Planting and 
Training of the Christian 


Church by the Apostles. 
Translated by J. E. Ryland. 
2 vols. 35. 6¢. each. 


— Memorials of Christian Life 
in the Early and Middle Ages; 
including Light in Dark Places. 
Trans. by J. E. Ryland. 35. 6d. 


NIBELUNGEN LIED. The 
Lay of the Nibelungs, metrically 
translated from the old German 
text by Alice Horton, and edited 
by Edward Bell, M.A. To which 
is prefixed the Essay on the Nibe- 
lungen Lied by Thomas Carlyle. 


55. 


NEW TESTAMENT (The) in 
Gresk. Griesbach’s Text, with 
various Readings at the foot of 
the page, and Parallel References 
in the margin; also a Critical 
Introduction and Chronological 
Tables. By an eminent Scholar, 
with a Greek and English Lexicon. 
ard Edition, revised and corrected, 
Two Facsimiles of Greek Manu- 
scripts. 900 pages. 55. 

The Lexicon may be had sepa- 
rately, price 2s. 


NICOLINI’S History of the 
Jesuits: their Origin, Progress, 
Doctrines, and Designs. With 8 
Portraits. τς, 


NORTH (R.) Lives of the Right 
Hon. Francis North, Baron Guild- 
ford, the Hon. Sir Dudley North, 
and the Hon. and Rev. Dr. John 
North. By the Hon. Roger 
North. Together with the Auto- 
biography of the Author. Edited 
by Augustus Jessopp, D.D. 3 vols. 
3s, 62. each. 


NUGENT’S (Lord) Memorials 
of Hampden, his Party and 
Times. With a Memoir of the 
Author, an Autograph Letter, and 
Portrait. ὃς; 


OLD ENGLISH CHRON- 
ICLES, including Ethelwerd’s 
Chronicle, Asser’s Life of Alfred, 
Geoffrey of Monmouth’s British 
History, Gildas, Nennius, and the 
spurious chronicle of Richard of 
Cirencester. Edited by J. A. 
Giles, D.C.L. 5s. 


OMAN (J. C.) The Great Indian 
Epics: the Stories of the RAMA- 
YANA and the MAHABHARATA. 
By John Campbell Oman, Prin-— 
cipal of Khalsa College, Amritsar. 
With Notes, Appendices, and 
Iliustrations. 35. 6d. 


ORDERICUS VYITALIS’ Eccle. 
siastical History of England 
and Normandy. Translated by 
-T. Forester, M.A. To which is 
added the CHRONICLE oF ST. 
EvROULT. 4 vols. 5s. each. 


OVIDL’S Works, complete. Literally 
translated into Prose. 3 vols. 
55. each. 


PASCAL’S Thoughts. Translated 
from the Text of M. Auguste 
Molinier by C. Kegan Paul. 3rd 
Edition. 3s. 62. 


PAULI’S (Dr. R.) Life of Alfred 
the Great. ‘Translated from the 
German. To which is appended 
Alfred’s ANGLO-SAXON VERSION 


18 An Alphabetical List of Books 


OF OrRosius. With a literal 
Translation interpaged, Notes, 
and an ANGLO-SAXON GRAMMAR 
and GLossAky, by B. Thorpe. 55. 


PAUSANIAS’ Description of 
Greece. Newly translatedbyA.R. 
Shilleto, M.A. 2 vols. 55. each. 


PEARSON’S Exposition of the 
Greed. Edited by E. Walford, 
M.A. 55. 


PEPYS’ Diary and Correspond- 
ence, Deciphered by the Rev. 
J. Smith, M.A., from the original 
Shorthand MS. in the Pepysian 
Library. Edited by Lord Bray- 
brooke. 4 vols. With 31«En- 
gravings. §s. each. 


PERCY’S Reliques of Ancient 
English Poetry. With an Essay 
on Ancient Minstrels and a Glos- 
sary. Edited by J. V. Pritchard, 
A.M. 2vols. 35. 6d. each. 


PERSIUS.—See JUVENAL, 


PETRARCH’S Sonnets, Tri- 
umphs, and other Poems. 
Translated into English Verse by 
various Hands. With a Life of 
the Poet by Thomas Campbell. 
With Portrait and τῷ Steel En- 
gravings, 55. 


PHILO -JODAUS, Works of. 
Translated by Prof. C. D. Yonge, 
M.A. 4 vols. 55. each. 


PICKERING’S History of the 
Races of Man, and their Geo- 
graphical Distribution. With An 
ANALYTICAL SYNOPSIS OF THE 
NATURAL HIsToORY OF MAN by 
Dr. Hall. With a Map of the 
World and 12 coloured Plates. 55. 


PINDAR. Translated into Prose 
by Dawson W. Turner. To which 
is added the Metrical Version by 
Abraham Moore. τς, 


PLANGHE, History of British 
Costume, from the Earliest Time 
to the Close of the Eighteenth 
Century. By J. ΒΕ. Planché, 
Somerset Herald. With upwards 
of 400 Illustrations. 55. 

PLATO’S Works. Literally trans- 
lated, with Introduction and 
Notes. 6 vols. §5. each. 

I.—The Apology of Socrates, 
Crito, Phzedo, Gorgias, Pro- 
tagoras, Phzedrus, Thesetetus, 
Euthyphron, Lysis. Trans- 
lated by the Rev. H. Carey. 

II.—The Republic, Timzeus, and 

Critias. Translated by Henry 
Davis. 

III.—Meno, Euthydemus, The 
Sophist, Statesman, Cratylus, 
Parmenides, and the Banquet. 
Translated by G. Burges. 

IV.—Philebus, Charmides, Laches, 
Menexenus, Hippias, Ion, 
The Two Alcibiades, The- 
ages, Rivals, Hipparchus, 
Minos, Clitopho, Epistles. 
Translated by G. Burges. 

V.—The Laws. Translated by 

G. Burges. 

VI.—The Doubtful Works. 
lated by ἃ. Burges. 

—— Summary and Analysis of 
the Dialogues. With Analytical 
Index. By A. Day, LL.D. 5s. 

PLAUTUS’S Comedies. Trans- 
lated by H. T. Riley, M.A. 2 
vols. 55. each. [ 

PLINY’S WNatural History. 
Translated by the late John 
Bostock, M.D., F.R.S., and H. T. 
Riley, M.A. 6 vols. 55. each. 

PLINY. The Letters of Pliny 
the Younger. Melmoth’s trans- 
lation, revised by the Rev. F. C. 
T. Bosanquet, M.A. 5s. 


Trans- 


PLOTINUS, Select Works of. 


Translated by Thomas Taylor. 
With an Introduction containing 
the substance of Porphyry’s- Plo- 
tinus. Edited by G. ΒΕ. 5. Mead, 
B.A., M.R.A.S. 59. 


Contained in Bohn's Libraries. 19 


PLUTARCH’S Lives, Translated 
by A. Stewart, M.A., and George 
Long, M.A. 4 vols. 35. 6d. each. 


Morals. Theosophical Essays. 
Translated by C. W. King, M.A. 
5.5. 

— Morals. Ethical Essays. 
Translated by the Rev. A. R. 
Shilleto, M.A. 5s. 


POETRY OF AMERICA. Se- 
lections from One Hundred 
American Poets, from 1776 to 
1876. By W. J. Linton. 35. 6d. 


POLITIGAL CYCLOPADIA. 
A Dictionary of Political, Con- 
stitutional, Statistical, and Fo- 
rensic Knowledge; forming a 
Work of Reference on subjects of 
Givil Administration, Political 
Economy, Finance, Commerce, 
Laws, and Social Relations. 4 
vols. 35. 6d. each. 


POPE’S Poetical Works. Edited, 
with copious Notes, by Robert 
Carruthers. With numerous Illus- 
trations. 2 vols. 55. each. 


Homer’s Iliad. Edited by 
the Rev. J. S. Watson, M.A. 
Illustrated by the entire Series of 
Flaxman’s Designs. 5s. 


Homer’s Odyssey, with the 
Battle of Frogs and Mice, Hymns, 
&c., by other translators. Edited 
by the Rev. J. 5. Watson, M.A. 
With the entire Series of Flax- 
man’s Designs. 55. 


Iuife, including many of his 
Letters. By Robert Carruthers. 
With numerous Illustrations. 55. 


POUSHKIN’S Prose Tales: The 
Captain’s Daughter—Doubrovsky 
— The Queen of Spades — An 
Amateur Peasant Girl—The Shot 
—The Snow Storm—The Post- 
master —- The Coffin Maker — 
Kirdjali—The Egyptian Nights— 
Peter the Great’s Negro, Trans- 
lated by T. Keane. 3s, 64. 


PRESCOTT’S Conquest of 
Mexico. Copyright edition, with 
the notes by John Foster Kirk, 
and an introduction by G. P. 
Winship. 3 vols. 35. 6d. éach. 

—— Conquest of Peru. Copyright 
edition, with the notes of John 
Foster Kirk. 2 vols. 35, 6d. each. 

——— Reign of Ferdinand and 
Isabella. | Copyright edition, 
with the notes of John Foster 
Kirk. 3 vols. 35. 6d. each. 

PROPERTIUS. Translated by 
Rev. P. J. F. Gantilion, M.A., 
and accompanied by Poetical 
Versions, from various sources. 
as. 6d. 

PROVERBS, Handbook of. Con- 
taining an entire Republication 
of Ray’s Collection of English 
Proverbs, with his additions from 
Foreign Languages and a com- 
plete Alphabetical Index; in which 
are introduced large additions as 
well of Proverbs as of Sayings, 
Sentences, Maxims, and Phrases, 
collected by H. G. Bohn. 5s. 

PROVERBS, A Polyglot of 
Foreign. Comprising French, 
Italian, German, Dutch, Spanish, 
Portuguese, and Danish. With 
English Translations & a General 
Index by H. G. Bohn. 5s. © 

POTTERY AND PORCELAIN, 
and other Objects of Vertu. Com- 
prising an Illustrated Catalogue of 
the Bernal Collection of Works 
of Art, with the prices at which 
they were sold by auction, and 
names of the possessors. To which 
are added, an Introductory Lecture 
on Pottery and Porcelain, and an 
Engraved List of all the known 
Marks and Monograms, By Henry 
G. Bohn. With numerous Wood 
Engravings, 5s.; or with Coloured 
Illustrations, τον, 6d. 

PROUT’S (Father) Reliques. Col- 
lected and arranged by Rev. Ἐν 
Mahony. New issue, with 21 
Etchings by D. Maclise, R.A. 
Nearly 600 pages. 55. 


20 An Alphabetical List of Books 


QUINTILIAN’S Institutes of 
Oratory, or Education of an 
Orator. Translated by the Rev. 
J. S. Watson, M.A. 2vols. πο 
each, 


RACINHE’S (Jean) Dramatic 
Works. A metrical English ver- 
sion. By R. Bruce Boswell, M.A. 
Oxon, 2 vols. 35. 6d. each. 


RAWNEE’S History of the Popes, 
their Church and State, and espe- 
cially of their Conflicts with Pro- 
testantism in the 16th and 17th 
centuries. Translated by E. 
Foster. 3 vols. 35. δα, each. 

—- History of Servia-and the 
Servian Revolution. With an 
Account of the Insurrection in 
Bosnia. Translated by Mrs. Kerr. 
35. 6d. 


RECREATIONS inSSooTrina. 
By ‘Craven.’ With 62 Engravings 
on Wood after Harvey, and 9 
Engravings on Steel, chiefly after 
A. Cooper, R.A. 5s. 


RENNIE’S Insect Architecture. 
Revised and enlarged by Rev. 
J. G. Wood, M.A. With 186 
Woodcut Illustrations. 55. 


REYNOLD’S (Sir J.) Literary 
Works. Edited by H.W. Beechy. 
2 vols, - 35. 6d. each. 


RICARDO on the Principles of 
Political Heonomy and Taxa- 
tion, Edited by E. C. K. Gonner, 
M.A. 55. 


RICHTER (Jean Paul Friedrich). 
Levana, a Treatise on Education: 
together with the Autobiography 
(a Fragment), and a short Pre- 
fatory Memoir. 45. 6d. 


—— Flower, Fruit, and Thorn 
Pieces, or the Wedded Life, Death, 
and Marriage of Firmian Stanis- 
laus Siebenkaes, Parish Advocate 
in the Parish of Kuhschnappitel. 
Newly translated by Lt.-Col. Alex. 
Ewing. 3s. 6d, 


ROGER DE HOVEDEN’S An- 
nals of English History, com- 
prising the History of England 
and of other Countries of Europe 
from A.D. 732 to A.D. 1201. 
Translated by H. Τὶ, Riley, M.A. 
2vols, 5s.each, — 


ROGER OF WENDOVER’S 
Flowers of History, comprising 
the History of England from the 
Descent. of the Saxens to A.D. 
1235, formerly ascribed to Matthew 
Paris. Translated by J. A. Giles, 
D.C.L. 2 vols. 55. each. 


ROME in the NINETEENTH 
CENTURY. Containing a com- 
plete Account of the Ruins of the 
Ancient City, the Remains of the 
Middle Ages, and the Monuments 
of Modern Times, By C. A, Eaton. 
With 34 Steel Engravings, 2 vols. 
5s. each. 


—— See BuRN and DykEr. 


ROSCOE’S (W.) Life and Ponti- 
ficate of Ireo X. Final edition, 
revised by Thomas Roscoe. 2 
vols. 35, 6d. each. 


——- Life of Lorenzo de’ Medici, 
called ‘the Magnificent.? With 
his poems, letters, &.  toth 
Edition, revised, with Memoir of 
Roscoe by his Son. 3s. 6d. 


RUSSIA. History of, from the 
eailiest Period, compiled from 
the most authentic sources by 
Walter K. Kelly. With Portraits. 
zvols. 35. 6d. each. 


SALLUST, FLORUS, and VEL- 


LEIUS PATHRCULUS. 
Translated by J. 5. Watson, M.A. 


5S. 

SCHILLER’S Works. Translated 
by various hands. 7vols. 35. Gd. 
each :— 

I.—History of the Thirty Years’ 
War. en 


Contained in Bohn’s Libraries. 21 


SCHILLER’S WORKS continued. 


1I.—History of the Revolt in the 
Netherlands, the Trials of 
Counts Egmont and Horn, 
the Siege of Antwerp, and 
the Disturbancesin France 
preceding the Reign of 
Henry IV. 

ItI.—Don Carlos, Mary Stuart, 
Maid of Orleans, Bride of 
Messina, together with the 
Use of the Chorus in 
Tragedy (a short Essay). 

These Dramas are all 
translated in metre. 

IV.—Robbers (with Schiller’s 
original Preface), Fiesco, 
Love and Intrigue, De- 
metrius, Ghost Seer, Sport 
of Divinity. 

The Dramas in this 
volume are translated into 


Prose. 
V.— Poems. 
VI.—Essays, Aistheticaland Philo- 
sophical 


VilI.—Wallenstein’s Camp, Pic- 
colomini and Death of 
Wallenstein, William Tell. 


SCHILLER and GOETHE. 

: Correspondence between, from 
A.D. 1794-1805. Translated by 
L. Dora Schmitz. 2 vols. 35. 6d. 
each. 

SCHLEGEL’S (F.) Lectures on 
the Philosophy of Life and the 
Philosophy of Language. Trans- 
lated by the Rev. A. J. W. Mor- 
rison, M.A. 35. 6d. 

— Lectures on the History of 
Literature, Ancient and Modern. 
Translated from the German. 35.62. 

Lectures on the Philosophy 

of History. Translated by J. B. 

Robertson. 3s. 62. 


SCHLEGEL’S Lectures on 
Modern History, together with 
the Lectures entitled Casar and 


Alexander, and The Beginning of 
our History. Translated by L. 
Purcell and R. H. Whitetock. 
45. 6d. 

—— Aisthetic and Miscellaneous 
Works. Translated by E, J. 
Millington. 35. 6d, 


SCHLEGEL (A. W.) Lectures 
on Dramatic Art and Literature. 
Translated by, J. Black. Revised 
Edition, by the Rey. A, J. W. 
Morrison, M.A. 35. θά. 


SCHOPENHAUER on the Four- 
fold Root of the Principle of 
Sufficient Reason, and On the 
Will in Nature. Translated by 
Madame Hillebrand. 5s. 

Essays. Selected and Trans- 

lated. With a Biographical Intro- 

duction and Sketch of his Philo- 

sophy, by E. Belfort Bax. 55. 


SCHOUW’S Earth, Plants, and 
Man. Translated by A. Henfrey. 
With coloured Map of the Geo- 
graphy of Plants. 55. 


SCHUMANN (Robert). His Life | 
and Works, by August Reissmann. 
Translated by A. L. Alger. 3s. 6d. 

—— Early Letters. Originally pub- 
blished by his Wife. Translated 
by May Herbert. With a Preface 
by Sir George Grove, D.C.L. 
35. 6d. 


SENECA on Benefits. Newly 
translated by A, Stewart, M.A. 
35. Od. 

—— Minor Essays and On Clem- 


ency. Translated by A. Stewart, 
M.A. 55. 


SHAKESPEARE DOCU- 
MENTS. Arranged by D. H. 
Lambert, B.A. 35. Ὁ, 


SHAKESPEARE’S Dramatic 
Art. The History and Character 
of Shakespeare’s Plays. By Dr. 
Hermann Ulrici. Translated by 
L. “ai Schmitz. 2vols. 35. 6d. 
each, 


22 


An Alphabetical List of Books 


SHAKESPEARE (William). A 
Literary Biography by Karl Elze, 
Ph.D., LL.D. Translated by 
L. Dora Schmitz. 55. 


SHARPE (8.) The History of 
Egypt, from the Earliest Times 
till the Conquest by the Arabs, 
A.D. 640. By Samuel Sharpe. 
2 Maps and upwards of 400 Illus- 
trative Woodcuts. 2 vols. 5s. each. 


SHERIDAN’S Dramatic Works, 
Complete. With Life by G.G.S. 
35. 6d. 


SISMONDI’S History of the 
Literature of the South otf 
Europe. Translated by Thomas 
Roscoe, 2 vols. 35. 64. each. 


SMITH’S Synonyms and An- 
tonyms, or Kindred Words and 
their Opposites. Revised Edi- 
tion. 5s. 


—— Synonyms Discriminated. 
A Dictionary of Synonymous 
Words in the English Language, 
showing the Accurate signification 
of words of similar meaning. 
Edited by the Rev. H. Percy 
Smith, M.A, 6s. 


SMITH’S (Adam) The Wealth of 
Nations. Edited by E. Belfort 
Bax, 2vols, 35. 6d. each. 


—— Theory of Moral Sentiments. 
With a Memoir of the Author by 
Dugald Stewart. 35. 6d. 


SMYTH’S (Professor) Lectures 
on Modern History. 2 vols. 
3s. 6@. each. 


SMYTH’S (Professor) Lectures 
on the French Revolution. 
2 vols. 35. 6d. each. 


SMITH’S (Pye) Geology and 
Seripture. 2nd Edition. 5s. 


SMOLLETT’S Adventures or 
Roderick Random. With short 
Memoir and Bibliography, and 
Cruikshank’s Illustrations. 3s. 6d. 


SMOLLETT’S Adventures of 
Peregrine Pickle. With Biblio- 
graphy and Cruikshank’s Illus- 
trations, 2vols. 3s. 6d. each. 

The Expedition of Hum- 

phry Clinker. With Bibliography 

and Cruikshank’s Illustrations. 

35. 6d. 


SOCRATES (surnamed ‘Scholas- 
ticus’). The Ecclesiastical His- 
tory of (A.D. 305-445). Translated 
from the Greek. 55. 


SOPHOCLES, The Tragedies of. 
A New Prose Translation, with 
Memoir, Notes, &c., by E. P. 
Coleridge, M.A. &». 


SOUTHEY’S Life of Nelson. 
With Portraits, Plans, and up- 
wards of 50 Engravings on Steel 
and Wood. 55. 

—— Life of Wesley, and the Rise 
and Progress of Methodism. ὅς, 
Robert Southey. The Story 
of his Life written in his Letters. 

Edited by John Dennis. 3s. 67. 


SOZOMEN’S Ecclesiastical His- 
tory. Translated from the Greek. 
Together with the ECCLESIASTI- 

‘CAL HISTORY OF PHILOSTOR- 
GIUS, as epitomised by Photius. 


Translated by Rev. E, Walford, 


M.A, 5 *e 


SPINOZA’S Chief Works. Trans- 
lated, with Introduction, by R.H.M. 
Elwes. 2 vols. 55. each. 


STANLEY’S Classified Synopsis 
of the Principal Painters of the 
Dutch and Flemish Schools. 
By George Stanley. 59. 


STARLING’S (Miss) Noble Deeds 
of Women. With 14 Steel En- 
giavings. §5. 


STAUNTON’S Chess-Player’s 


Handbook. 5s. 
—— Chess Praxis. A Supplement 
to the Chess-player’s Handbook. 


5S. ᾿ 


᾿ 


Contained in Bohn’s Libraries. 23 


STAUNTON’S Chess - player’s 
Companion. Comprising a Trea- 
tise on Odds, Collection of Match 
Games, and a Selection of Original 
Problems. 55. 

Chess Tournament of 1851. 

With Introduction and Notes. 55. 


STOCKHARDT’S Experimental 
Chemistry. Edited by Ὁ, ὟΝ. 
Heaton, F.C.S. 5s. 


STOWE (Mrs.H.B.) Uncle Tom’s 
Cabin. Illustrated. 3s. 6d, 


STRABO’S Geography. Trans- 
lated by W. Falconer, M.A., 
and H. (Ὁ. Hamilton. 3 vols. 
5s. each. 


STRICKLAND’S (Agnes) Lives 
of the Queens of England, from 
the Norman Conquest. Revised 
Edition. With 6 Portraits. 6 vols. 
55. each. 


Life of Mary Queen of Scots. 
2 vols. 55. each. 

Lives of the Tudor and Stuart 
Princesses. With Portraits. 5s. 


STUART and REVETT’S Anti- 
quities of Athens, and other 
Monuments of Greece. With 71 
Plates engraved on Steel, and 
numerous Woodcut Capitals. τς, 


SUETONIUS’ Lives ofthe Tweive 
Ceesars and Lives of the Gram- 
marians. Thomson’s translation, 
revised by T. Forester. 55. 


SWIFT’S Prose Works. Edited 
by Temple Scott. With a Bio- 
graphical Introduction by the Right 
Hon. W. Ε΄ H. Lecky, M.P. 
With Portraits and Facsimiles. 
12 vols. 35. 6d. each. 

[ Vols. L.-X. ready. 
I.—A Tale of a Tub, The Battle 
of the Books, and other 
early works. Edited by 
Temple Scott. With a 
Biographical Introduction 

by W. E. H. Lecky. 


SwIFT’s PROSE WORKS continued. 


II.—-TheJournalto Stella. Edited 
by Frederick Ryland,M.A. 
With 2 Portraits and Fac- 
simile. ior 
IIIl.& IV.—Writings on Religion and. 
the Church. 
V.—Historical and Political 
Tracts (English). 
VI.—The Drapier’s Letters. 
With facsimiles of Wood’s 
Coinage, &c. 


VII.—Historical and Political 
Tracts (Irish). 
VIII.—Gulliver’s Travels. Edited 


by G. R. Dennis. 
Portrait and Maps. 
IX. —Contributions to Periodicals, 
X.—Historical Writings. 
XI.—Literary Essays. 

[ln preparation. 

XII.—Index and Bibliography. 
[72 preparation. 


TACITUS. The Works of. Liter- 
ally translated. 2 vols. 55. each. 


TALES OF THE GENII. Trans- 
lated from the Persian by Sir 
Charles Morell. Numerous Wood- 
cuts and 12 Steel Engravings. 5s. 


TASSO’S Jerusalem Delivered. 
Translated into English Spenserian 
Verse by J. H. Wiffen. With 8 
Engravings on Steel and 24 Wood- 
cuts by Thurston. 5s. 


TAYLOR’S (Bishop Jeremy ) 
Holy Living and Dying. 35. 6d. 
TEN BRINK.—See BRINK. 


TERENCE and PHAIDRUS. 
Literally translated by H. T. Riley, 
M.A. To whichis added, Smart’s 
Metrical Version of Phzedrus. 55. 


THEOCRITUS, BION, MOS- 
CHUS, and TYRTAUS. Liter- 
ally translated by the Rev. J. 
Banks, M.A. To which are ap- 
pended the Metrical Versions of 
Chapman, 55: 


With 


Paces An Alphabetical List of Books 


THRODORET and EVAGRIUS, 
Histories of the Church from A.D. 
332 to A.D. 427; and from A.D. 
431 to A.D. 544. Translated. 5s. 


THIERRY’S History of the 
Conquest of England by the 
Normans, Translated by Wil- 
liam Hazlitt. 2 vols. 3s. 6d. each. 


THUCYDIDES. The Pelopon- 
nesian War. Literally translated 
by the Rev. H. Dale. 2 vols. 
35. 62, each. 

—— An Analysis and Summary 
of. ByJ.T. Wheeler. 5s. 


THUDICHUM (J. L. W.) A Trea- 
tise on Wines. Illustrated. 5s. 


URE’S (Dr. A.) Cotton Manufac- 
ture of Great Britain. Edited 
by P. L. Simmonds, 2 vols. §s. 
each. 

—— Philosophy of Manufactures. 
Edited by P. L. Simmonds. 7s. 6d. 

VASARI’S Lives of the most 
Eminent Painters, Sculptors, 
and Architects. Translated by 
Mrs, J. Foster, with a Commen- 
tary by J. P. Richter, Ph.D. 6 
vols. 35. 6d. each, 

VIRGIL. A Literal Prose Trans- 
lation by A. Hamilton Bryce, 


LL.D. With Portrait. 3s. 62. 
VOLTAIRE’S Tales. Translated 
by R. B. Boswell. Containing 


Bebouc, Memnon, Candide, L’In- 
génu, and other Tales. 3s. δά, 


WALTON’S Complete Angler. 
Edited by Edward Jesse. With 
Portrait and 203 Engravings on 
Wood and 26 Engravings on 
Steel. 55. 

Lives of Donne, Hooker, &c. 
New Edition revised by A. H. 
Bullen, with a Memoir of Izaak 
Walton by Wm. Dowling. With 
numerous Illustrations. 5s. 

WELLINGTON, Lifeof. By ‘An 
Old Soldier.’ From the materials 
of Maxwell. With Index and 18 
Steel Engravings. ὅς. 


WELLINGTON, Victories of. 
See MAXWELL, : 


WERNER’S Templars in 
Cyprus. Translated by E. A.M. 
Lewis. 35. 6d. 


WESTROPP (H. M.) A Hand- 
book of Archseology, Egyptian, 
Greek, Etruscan, Roman. [llus- 
trated. §s, 


WHITE'S Natural History of 
Selborne. With Notes by Sir 
William Jardine. Edited by Ed- 
ward Jesse. With 40 Portraits 
and coloured Plates.  §s, 


WHEATLEY’S A Rational Ilius- 
tration of the Book of Common 
Prayer. 35. 62. 


WHEELER’S Noted Names of 
Fiction, Dictionary of. 5,5. 


WIESELER’S Chronological 
Synopsis of the Four Gospels. 
Translated by the Rev. Canon 
Venables. 35. 6d. 


WILLIAMofMALMZSBURY’S 
Chronicle of the Kings of Hing- 
land. Translated by the Rev. J. 
Sharpe. Edited by J. A. Giles, 
DX aa G8 


XENOPHON’S Works. Trans- 
lated by the Rev. J. S. Watson, 
M.A., and the Rev. H. Dale. In 
3 vols. 55. each. 


YOUNG (Arthur). Travels in 
France during the years 1787, 
1788, and 1789. Edited by 
M. Betham Edwards. 35, 6d. 


Tour in Ireland, with 
Genexal Observations on the state 
of the country during the years 
1776-79. Edited by A. W. 
Hutton. With Complete Biblio- 
graphy by J. P. Anderson, and 
Map. 2 vols. 3s, 6d, each. ~~ 


YULE-TIDH STORIES. A Col- 
lection of Scandinavian and North- 
German Popular Tales and Tra-. 
ditions, Edited by B. Thorpe. §s, 


THE YORK LIBRARY 


The volumes are printed in a handy size (64 x 4} in.), on 
thin but opaque paper, aud are simply and 
attractively bound. 


Price, in cloth, 2s. net ; in leather, 3s. net. 


‘The York Library is noticeable by reason of the wisdom and intelli- 
gence displayed in the choice of unhackneyed classics. . . . A most 
attractive series of reprints. ... The size and style of the volumes are 
exactly what they should be.’— Bookman. 


‘These books should find their way to every home that owns any 
cultivation.’— Wotes and Queries. 


The following volumes are now ready: 


CHARLOTTE BRONTE’S JANE EYRE. 


BURNEY’S EVELINA. Edited, with an Introduction and 
Notes, by ANNIE RAINE ELLIs. 


BURNEY’S CECILIA. Edited by ANNIE RAINE ELLIS, 


2 vols. 


BURTON’S ANATOMY OF MELANCHOLY. Edited by the ~ 
Rev. A. R. SHILLETO, M.A., with Introduction by A. H. BULLEN, 
3 vols, 


BURTON’S (SIR RICHARD) PILGRIMAGE TO AL- 
Seer ied ahs MECCAH. With Introduction by STANLEY LANE- 
OOLE. 2 VOIS, 


CERVANTES’ DON QUIXOTE. MOoTTEvx’s Translation, re- 
vised. With LOCKHART’s Life and Notes. 2 vols. 


CLASSIC TALES: JOHNSON’s RASSELAS, GOLDSMITH’S VICAR 
OF WAKEFIELD, STERNE’S SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY, WALPOLE’S 
CASTLE OF OTRANTO. With Introduction by C. 5. FEARENSIDE, M.A. 


COLERIDGE’S AIDS TO REFLECTION, and the Confessions — 
of an Inquiring Spirit. 
COLERIDGE’S FRIEND. A series of Essays on Morals, 


Politics, and Religion, 


COLERIDGE’S TABLE TALK AND OMNIANA. Arranged 
and Edited by T. AsHeE, B.A. 


DRAPER’S HISTORY OF THE INTELLECTUAL DE- 
VELOPMENT OF EUROPE. 2 vols. 


GEORGE ELIOT’S ADAM BEDE. 


EMERSON’S WORKS. A new edition in 5 volumes, with the 
Text edited and collated by GEORGE SAMPSON, 


FIELDING’S TOM JONES. 2 vols. 
GASKELL’S SYLVIA’S LOVERS, 


THE YORK LIBRARY—continued. 


GESTA ROMANORUM, or Entertaining Moral Stories in- 
vented by the Monks. Translated from the Latin by the Rev. CHARLES 
SWAN. Revised edition, by WYNNARD HOOPER, M.A. 


GOETHE’S FAUST. Translated by ANNA SWANWICK, LL.D. 
Revised edition, with an Introduction and Bibliography by KARL BREUL, 
Litt.D., Ph.D. 


HAWTHORNE’S TRANSFORMATION (THE MARBLE FAUN). 
IRVING’S SKETCH BOOK. 
JAMESON’S SHAKESPEARE’S HEROINES.  Characteris- 


tics of Women: Moral, Poetical, and Historical. 


LAMB’S ESSAYS. Including the Essays of Elia, Last Essays 


of Elia, and Eliana. 


MARCUS AURELIUS ANTONINUS, THE THOUGHTS 
OF. ‘Translated by GEORGE LonGc, M.A. With an Essay on Marcus 
Aurelius by MATTHEW ARNOLD, 


MARRYAT’S MR. MIDSHIPMAN EASY. With 8 Illustra- 
trations by E, T. WHEELER. 


MARRYAT’S PETER SIMPLE. With 8 Illustrations by F. A. 
FRASER. 


MONTAIGNE’S ESSAYS. _ Cotton’s translation. Revised by 
W. GC. HAZLITT. 3 vols. 


MORE’S UTOPIA. With the Life ot Sir Thomas More, by 
William Roper, and his Letters to Margaret Roper and others. Edited, 
with Introduction and Notes, by GEORGE SAMPSON. [ln the Press. 


MOTLEY’S RISE OF THE DUTCH REPUBLIC. Witha 
Biographical Introduction by MONCURE D. CONWAY. 3 vols. 


PASCAL’S THOUGHTS. Translated from the Text of M. 
AUGUSTE MOLINIER by C. KEGAN PAUL, Third edition. 


PLUTARCH’S LIVES. Translated, with Notes and a Life by 


AUBREY STEWART, M.A.,, and GEORGE LONG, M.A. 4 vols. 


τ - SWIF T’S GULLIVER’S TRAVELS. Edited, with Introduction 


and Notes, by G. ΒΕ. DENNIS, with facsimiles of the original illustrations. 


— SWIFT’S JOURNAL TO STELLA. Edited, with Introduction 


and Notes, by F. RYLAND, M.A. 


TROLLOPE’S THE WARDEN. With an Introduction by 
FREDERIC HARRISON, 


TROLLOPE’S BARCHESTER TOWERS. 

TROLLOPE’S DR. THORNE. 

TROLLOPE’S FRAMLEY PARSONAGE. 

TROLLOPE’S SMALL HOUSE AT ALLINGTON. 2 vols. 
TROLLOPE’S LAST CHRONICLE OF BARSET. 2 vols. 


ARTHUR YOUNG’S TRAVELS IN FRANCE, during the 
years 1787, 1788, and 1789. Edited with Introduction and Notes, by M. 
BETHAM EDWARDS. 


Other Volumes are in Preparation. 


BELL'S HANDBOOKS 
THE GREAT MASTERS 


IN PAINTING AND SCULPTURE. 
EDITED BY G, C. WILLIAMSON, LittT.D. 


Post 8vo. With 40 Illustrations and Photogravure Frontispiece. 5s. net each. 


The following Volumes have been issued: 


BOTTICELLI. By A. STREETER. 2nd Edition. 
BRUNELLESCHI. By Leaper Scorr. 

CORREGGIO. By SELwyn Brinton, M.A. 2nd Edition. 

CARLO CRIVELLI. By G. McNeEIL RusHFoRTH, M.A. 
DELLA ROBBIA. By the MARCHESA BURLAMACCHI. 2nd Edition. 
ANDREA DEL SARTO. By H. GuInngss. 2nd Edition. 
DONATELLO. By Hore REA. 2nd Edition. 

GERARD DOU. By Dr. W. MarTIN. Translated by Clara Bell. 
GAUDENZIO FERRARI. By EruHen HALsEy. 

FRANCIA. By Grorce Ὁ, WILLIAMSON, Litt.D. 

GIORGIONE, By Hersrzt Cook, M.A. 

GIOTTO. By F. MAson PERKINS. 

FRANS HALS. By Geratp 5. Davigs, M.A, 

BERNARDINO LUINI. By GreorceE C. WILLIAMSON, Litt.D. 3rd Edition. 
LEONARDO DA VINCI. By Epwarp McCurpy, M.A. 
MANTEGNA. By Maup CRUTTWELL. 

MEMLINC. By W. H. James WEALE. 


MICHEL ANGELO. By Lord RonaLtp SUTHERLAND Gower, M.A., 
F.S.A., 


PERUGINO. ByG C, WILLIAMsoN, Litt.D. 2nd Edition. 
PIERO DELLA FRANCESCA. By W. G. WarTeErs, M.A. 
PINTORICCHIO. By EvELYN MARCH PHILLIPPs. 
RAPHAEL. By H. Srracury. 2nd Edition. 
REMBRANDT. By MAtcotm BELL. 2nd Edition. 
RUBENS. By Hore RzEa. 

LUCA SIGNORELLI. By MAup CruTrwett. 2nd Edition. 
SODOMA. By the Contessa LorgNZzO PRIULI-BON. 
TINTORETTO. By J. B. StoucHTon Howzorn, M.A. 

VAN DYCK, By Lionet Cust, M.V.O., F.S.A. 
VELASQUEZ, By R. A. M. STEVENSON. 3rd Edition. 
WATTEAU. By EpGcumBeE STALEY, B.A. 

WILKIE. By Lord RONALD SUTHERLAND Gower, M.A,, F.S.A. 


Others to follow. 


‘CHISWICK SHAKESPEARE. — 


Tilustrated by BYAM SHAW. ; 
WitH INTRODUCTIONS AND GLOSSARIES BY JOHN DENNIS. 


Printed at the Chiswick Press, pott 8vo., price 15. 6d. net per volume; 
also a cheaper edition, Is. net per volume ; or 2s. net in limp leather ; also 
a few copies, on Japanese vellum, to be sold only in sets, price 5s. net per 
volume. 

Now Complete in 39 Volumes. 


ALL’S WELL THAT ENDS LOVE’S LABOUR’S LOST. 


WELL. MACBETH, 
ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. MEASURE FOR MEASURE, 
AS YOU LIKE IT. MERCHANT OF VENICE. 
COMEDY OF ERRORS. MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR. 
CORIOLANUS. MIDSUMMER-NIGHT'S DREAM. 
CYMBELINE. MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING. 
HAMLET. OTHELLO, . 
JULIUS CAESAR. PERICLES. 


KING HENRY IV. Part I. ROMEO AND JULIET. 

KING HENRY IV. PartII. THE TAMING OF THE SHREW. 
KING HENRY V. THE TEMPEST. 

KING HENRY VI. Part I. TIMON OF ATHENS. 

KING HENRY VI. Part I. TITUS ANDRONICUS. 

KING HENRY VI. Part III. TROILUS AND CRESSIDA. 


KING HENRY VIIL TWELFTH NIGHT. 

KING JOHN. TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA. 
KING LEAR. WINTER’S TALE. 

KING RICHARD II. POEMS. 

KING RICHARD III. SONNETS. 


* A fascinating little edition. —Notes and Queries. 

‘A cheap, very comely, and altogether desirable edition.’— Westminster Gazette. 

But a few years ago such volumes would have been deemed worthy to be considered 
éditions de luxe. To-day, the low price at which they are offered to the public alone 
prevents them being so regarded.’—Stuaio. 

‘Handy in shape and size, wonderfully cheap, beautifully printed from the Cam- Ὁ 
bridge text, and illustrated quaintly yet admirably by Mr. Byam Shaw, we have nothing 
but praise for it. No one who wants a good and convenient Shakespeare—without 
excursuses, discursuses, or even too many notes—can do better, in our opinion, than 
subscribe to this issue which is saying a good deal in these days of cheap reprints,’— 
Vanity Fair. ν Ϊ 

‘What we like about these elegant booklets is the οἐξεπείοη that has been paidtothe _ 
paper, as well as to the print and decoration; such stout laid paper will last for ages. 
On this account alone, the ‘Chiswick’ should casily be first among pocket Shake- 
speares.’— Pall Mall Gazette. 


* * The Chiswick Shakespeare may also be had bound in 12 volumes, 
full οὐδέ back, price 36s. net, ς : 


λον ey ee a ae 


- Herrick. 


Now Editions, feap. 8yo. 3s. 6d. each net. 


THE ALDINE EDITION 


OF TEE 


Peto os ΟΝ ES: 


*This excellent edition of the English classics, with their complete texts and 
scholarly introductions, are something very different from the cheap volumes of 
extracts which are just now so much too common.’—St, James’s Gazetia, 


* An oxcallent series. 


Small, handy, and complote.’—Saturday Review. 


Akenside. Edited by Rev. A. Dyce. 
Beattie. Edited by Rev. A. Dyce. 
Biske. Edited by W. M. Rossetti. 
Burns. Edited by G. A. Aitken. 
8 vols, 
Butler. 


2 vols. 


Campbell. Edited by His Son- 
- in-law, the Rev. A. W. Hill. With 
Momoir by W. Allingham. 


Chatterton. Edited by the Rev. 
W. W. Skeat, M.A. 2 vols. 


Chaucer. Edited by Dr. R. Morris, 
with Memoir by Sir H. Nicolas. 6 vols. 


Churchill. Edited by Jas. Hannay. 


Edited by R. B. Johnezon. 


ὦ yola, 

Coleridge. Edited by T. Ashe, 
B.A. 2 vols. 

Collins. Hidited by W. Moy 
Thomaa, 


Cowper. Edited by John Bruce, 
FS.A. 8 vols. 


Dryden. Ediied by the Rev. R. 
Hooper, M.A. 5 vols. 

Goldsmith. Revised Hdition by 
Austin Dobson. With Portrait, 

tg Edited by J. Bradshaw, 


Saran Edited bythe Rev A.B. 


Grosart, 
Edited by George 
Saintsbury. 2 vols, 


Keats. Edited by the late Lord 
Houghton. 


Kirke White. Edited, with a 
Mémoir, by Sir H. Nicolas. 

που. Hdited by Dr. Bradshaw. 
2 vols. 

Parnell. Edited by G. A. Aitken. 

Pope. Edited by G. BR. Dennis, 
With Memoir by John Dennis. 3 vols, 

Pricr. Edited by R. B. Johuson. 
2 vols. : 

Raleigh and Wotton. With Se- 
iections from the Writings of other 


COURTLY PORTS from 1540 to 1650, 
Edited by Ven. Archdeacon Hannah, 
Ὁ 61. 


Bouse: Edited by Edward Bell, 

Scott, Edited by John Dennis, 
5 vols. 

Shakespeare’s Poems. Edited by 
Rev. A. Dyce. 

Shelley. Edited by Η, Buxton 
Forman. 5 vols. 

Spenser. Hdited by J. Payne-Col- 
lier. 5 vols. 


Surrey. Edited by J. Yeowell. 

Swift. Edited by tha Rev. J. 
Mitford. 3 vols. 

Thomson. Hdited by the Rev. Ὁ. 
©. Tovey. 2 vols. 


Vaughan. Sacred Poems and 
Pious otha ate: Edited by tho 
Rev. H. Lyt 

Wordsworth, Edited by Prof. 


Dowden. 7 vols, 
Wyatt. Edited by J. Yeowell. 


Young. 2 vels. Edited by the 
Rev, J. Mitford, . 


THE ALL-ENGLAND SERIES. 


HANDBOOKS OF ATHLETIC GAMES, 


The only Series issued at a moderate price, by Writers who are in 
the first rank in their respective’ céepartments, — 


* The best instruction on games and sports by the best authorities, at the lowest 


prices.’—Oxford Magazine. 


Small 8vo. cloth, Illustrated, 


Cricket. By Frep C, Honuanp. 

Cricket. By the Hon. and Rey. 
EH. ΤΙΧΤΤΕΙ ΤΟΝ. 

Croquet. By Lieut.-Col. the Hon. 
H, 0. NrepHam, 

Lawn Tennis. By H. W. W. 
WILBERFORCE. With a Chapter for 
Ladies, by Mrs, H1Liyarp, 

Squash Tennis. By Evsracr H, 
Mites. Double vol. 2s, 

Tennis and Rackets and Fives. 
By JuLian MarsHALt, Major J. Srens, 
and Rev. J. A. Annan Tart, 


Golf. By H. 5. C. Everrarp. 
Double vol. 2s. 
Rowing and Sculling. By Goy 


Rixon. 
Rowing and Sculling. By W.B. 
WooD@aTE, 
Sailing. By E.F. Kreuz, dbl.vol, 2s. 
Swimming. By Mazin and J. 
RacstEeR COBBETT, 
Camping out. By A. A. Maocpon- 
ELL. Double vol. 2s. 
Canoeing. By Dr. J. ἢ. Haywarp, 
Double vol. 2s. 
Mountaineering. By Dr. Craups 
Wiutsox. Double vol. 28, 
Athletics. By H. H. Grrrri. 
Riding. By W. A. Kerr, V.C. 
Double vol. 2s. 
Ladies’ Riding. By W.A. Kerr, V.0, 
Boxing. By R. G. Atnanson- Winn. 
With Prefatory Note by Bat Mullins, 


Price ls. each. 

Fencing. By H.A. Conmorng Dunn. 

Cycling. By H. H. Grirrin,L.A.C., 
N.C.U., O.T.C. With a Ohapter for 


Lasier, by Miss AGyES Woop. Double 

vo a. 

Wrestling. By Warrer Arw- 
STRONG. New Edition. 

Broadsword and Singlestick. 
By R. G, ALLANSON- Winn and 0. Part. 


LIPPS-WOLLEY. 
By A. F. ΖΈΝΕΙΝ. 


Gymnastics. 
Double vol. 2s. 

Gymnastic Competition and Dis- 
play Exercises. Compiled by 
Ἐν GraF. 

Indian Clubs. By G. T. B. Cos- 

BETT and A. F. JENKIN, : 

Dumb-bells. By F, Gnrar. 

Foctball— Rugby Game. By 
Harry VASSALL. 

Football—Association Game. By 
C. W. Aucocre. Revised Edition. 


Hockey. By F. 5. Cnreswexu. 
New Edition. 
Skating. By Dovatas Avpams. 


With a Chapter for Ladies, by Miss L. 
CHEETHAM, and a Chapter on Speed 
Skating, by a Fen Skater. Dbl. vol. 2s. 

Baseball. By Newron Crane, 

Rounders, Fieldball, Bowls, 
Quoits, Curling, Skitties, &c. 
By J. M. Waker and Ὁ, 6. Morr. 

| Dancing. By Epwanp Scorr, 
Double vol. 2s. 


THE CLUB SERIES OF CARD AND TABLE GAMES. 
‘ No well-regulated club or country house should be without this useful series of books. 


Small Svo. cloth, 
Bridge. By ‘ Temprar,’ 
Whist. By Dr. Wu. Porn, F.R.S. 
Solo Whist. By Ronzrr F. Gran, 
Billiards. By Major-Gen. A. W. 
Drayrson, F.R.A.S. With a Preface 
by W. J. Peall. 
Hints on Billiards. By J. P. 
BucHANAN. Double vol. 2s. 
Chess. By Ropert F. GREEN. 
The Two-Move Chess Problem. 
By B. G. Laws. 
Chess Openings. By I. Gunspzre. 
Draughts and Backgammon. 
By ‘ BERKELEY.’ 
Reversi and Go Bang. 
By ‘ BERKELEY,’ 


Illustrated. 


Price ls. each. Globe. 
Dominoes and Solitaire. 
By * BERKELEY.’ 
Bézique and Cribbage. 
By ‘ BERKELEY.’ 
Ecarté and Euchre. 
By ‘ BerKELery.’ 
Piquet and Rubicen Piquet. 
By ‘ BERKELEY.’ 
Skat. By Lovurs Dieat. 
*,* A Skat Scoring-book. 1s. 


Round Games, including δὰ, ἢ 


Napoleon, Leo, Vinet-ct-un, &e. 
BaxTEerR- WRAY. 


Parlour and Playground Gamon, 
By Mra, Lavzunon Gomnz, 


τ ; 


“BELL'S CATHEDRAL SERIES. 
Profusely Ilustrated, cloth, crown 8vo. 1s. 6d. net each. 


SLISH CATHEDRALS. An Itinerary and Description. Compiled by James Ὁ. 
We eamine A.M., M.D. Revised and edited with an Introduction on Cathedral 


Architecture by the Rev. T. Perkins, M.A., F.R.A.S 
BANGOR. By P. B. IRonsipE Bax. | 
BRISTOL. By H. J. L. J. Mass#, M.A. - 
CANTERBURY. By Hartiey WITHERS. 5th Edition. 
CARLISLE. By C. Kine ELey. 
CHESTER. By Cuarres Hiatt. 3rd Edition. 
CHICHESTER. By H.C. Corvette, A.R.I.B.A. 2nd Edition. 
DURHAM. By J. E. Bycate, A.R.C.A. 3rd Edition. 
ἘΠῚ. By Rev. W. Ὁ. Sweetinc, M.A. 2nd Edition. 
EXETER. By Percy Appiesuaw, B.A. end Edition, revised. 
GLOUCESTER. By H. J. L. J. Mass#, M.A. 3rd Edition. 
HEREFORD. By A. Hues Fisuer, A.R.E, 2nd Edition, revised. 
LICHFIELD. By A. B. Ciirron. 2nd Edition. 
LINCOLN. By A. F. Kenprick, B.A. 3rd Edition. 
MANCHESTER. By Rev. T. Perkins, M.A. 
NORWICH. By C. H. B. QuENNELL. 2nd Edition. 
OXFORD. By Rev. Percy DEARMER, M.A. 2nd Edition, revised. 
PETERBOROUGH. By Rev. W. Ὁ. Sweetinc. 2nd Edition, revised. 
RIPON. By Ceci Hattett, B.A. 
ROCHESTER. ByG.H. Parmer, B.A. 2nd Edition, revised, 
ST. ALBANS. By Rev. T. Perkins, M.A. 
ST. ASAPH. By P. B. Ironsipe Bax. 
ST. DAVID’S. By Puivip Rosson, A.R.I.B.A. 
ST. PATRICK’S, DUBLIN. By Rev. J. H. Bernarp, M.A.,D.D. 2nd Edition. 
ST. PAUL’S. By Rev. ArTHuR Dimock, M.A. 3rd Edition, revised. 
ST. SAVIOUR’S, SOUTHWARK. By Greorcge WorLEY. 
SALISBURY. By GLeEson WHITE. 3rd Edition, revised. 
SOUTHWELL. By Rev. Arruur Dimock, M.A. and Edition, revised. 
WELLS. By Rev. Percy DeARMER, M.A. 3rd Edition. 
WINCHESTER. By P. W. SerGEANT. 3rd Edition. 
WORCESTER. By E. F. Strance. end Edition. 
YORK. By A. Ciurtron-Brock, M.A. 3rd Edition. 


Uniform with above Series. Now ready. 1s. 6a. net each. 
ST. ety 3 CHURCH, CANTERBURY. By the Rev. Canon RovuTLepceE, 
M 


BEVERLEY MINSTER. By CHar.es Hiatt. 


(Age at ny lhe and CHRISTCHURCH PRIORY. By the Rev. T. 
ERKINS, M.A, 
TEWKESBURY ABBEY AND DEERHURST PRIORY. ByH. J. L. J. Mass#, M.A. 


BATH ABBEY, MALMESBURY ABBEY, and BRADFORD-ON-AVON CHURCH. 
By Rev. T. Perkins, M.A. 
WESTMINSTER ABBEY. By Cuarves Hiatt. 


STRATFORD-ON-AVON CHURCH. By Harotp Baker. 


BELL'S HANDBOOKS TO CONTINENTAL CHURCHES. 
Profusely Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. net each, 

AMIENS. By the Rev. T. Perkins, M.A. 

BAYEUX. By the Rev. ΒΕ. 5. Myine. 

CHARTRES : The Cathedral and Other Churches. By H. J. L. J. Mass#, M.A. 

MONT ST. MICHEL. By H. J. L. J. Mass#, M.A. 

PARIS (NOTRE-DAME). By Cuarres Harr. 

ROUEN : The Cathedral and Other Churches. By the Rev. Τὶ PerKins, M.A. 


The Best Practical Working Dictionary of the 
English Language. : 


WEBSTER’S = 
INTERNATIONAL 


DICTIONARY. -—4% 


9348 PAGES. | 5000 ILLUSTRATIONS. 


NEW EDITION, REVISED THROUGHOUT WITH A 
NEW SUPPLEMENT OF 25,000 ADDITIONAL 
WORDS AND PHRASES. 


The Appendices comprise a Pronouncing Gazetteer of the World, 
Vocabularies of Scripture, Greek, Latin, and English Proper Names, 
a Dictionary of the Noted Names of Fiction, a Brief History of the 
English Language, a Dictionary of Foreign Quotations, Words, Phrases, 
Proverbs, &c., a Biographical Dictionary with 10,000 names, &c., &e. 


Dr. MURRAY, Editor of the ‘Oxford English Dictionary, says -~‘ In this its 
latest form, and with its large Supplement and numerous appendices, it is a wonderful 
volume, which well maintains its ground against all rivals on its own lines. The ‘ defini- 
tions,’ or more properly, ‘explanations of meaning’ in ‘ Webster’ have always struck me 
as particularly terse and well-put; and it is hard to see how anything better could be 
done within the limits.’ 


Professor JOSEPH WRIGHT, M.A., Ph.D., D.C.L., OL.D., Editor of A 
the ‘ English Dialect Dictionary,’ says :—‘ The new edition of ‘‘ Webster's International 
Dictionary ” is undoubtedly the most useful and reliable work of its kind in any country. _ 
No one who has not examined the work carefully would believe that such a vast amount __ 
of lexicographical information could possibly be found within so small a compass.’ Ὁ | 

Professor A. H. SAYCE, LL.D., D.D., says:—‘It is indeed a marvellous _ 
work 3 it is difficult to conceive of a Dictionary more exhaustive and complete. Every- — 
thing is in it—not only what we might expect to find in such a work, but also what few 
of us would ever have thought of looking for.’ 

Rev. JOSEPH WOOD, D.D.,:-Head Master of Harrow, says:—‘ { have always 
thought very highly of its merits. Indeed, I consider it to be far the most accurate 
English Dictionary in existence, and much more reliable than the ‘‘Century.” For — 
daily and hourly reference, ‘‘ Webster ’’ seems to me unrivalled.’ : 


Prospectuses, with Prices and Specimen Pages, on Application. 


LONDON: GEORGE BELL & SONS, YORK HOUSE, 


PORTUGAL STREET, W.C. 
50,000. 5, & 5. 11.06, 


Lae 
iy Ν 


sits 


pie | ty ne oe 


ἱ 


᾿ 
i) 
i! 
} 


———. 
SSS SSS 


—s -. a 
= 


PN Aristoteles 
173 | Treatise on rhetoric 


,OBARTS LIBRARY 
DUE DATE 


OCT 31 1990 


7 ae eee " ᾿ ἔφυ ς ee tt OTD Met . ~ - - 
᾿ " ea Rak one enmn ene. 6: SS AL Gr is 7 . ad 
᾿ ᾿ La OR OS SNR AR Trt a RE .2 CEPI ERG oad ey, 
z ; 4 ‘ Pan ile’ Tet batt eke Raced i) Η 
; xe : ‘ ᾿ ᾿ ; ee : : 
᾿ κὸν 7 a ᾿ χὰ 
᾿ : = ? 7 ᾿ cS Αι ᾿ 
. τ ; 
᾿ ᾿ ᾿ 5 ς x ἣν - μὴ 
᾿ 4 + 7 : 
7 a ᾿ - : 
δ ; | = 5 . 
is - Ἂ ᾿ τ 


id ; ᾿ Ἐν ἢ ; 7 : = 
ἣ : : " : ἷ “ἦγον ae νὸν τε κε gi 
ee ie abd ah wore See 

7, - τὴ 


vee 
+ ἔν σ δῇ οὐδ tr Rg YS 
ΧΟ 
< 


- 
om 


™ 

A Pa 
αν, 
eye 


‘etal 


αἱ 


Oe 
oe 
+ 

ee 


ae 


Ἐν ee 


